淡	thin	"Drink water and burn twice as many calories as you eat... you'll definitely get thin. Imagine inside your body, all those calories literally being burned from above and below... THAT's what it takes to become thin."	11	164	8		Thin girls are twice as hot when they're wet.	
畑	farm	Many farms are created by first setting FIRE over the land to clear the land for the FIELDS.	9	166	8		"When creating a farm, the prospective farmer must first set fire to the forest to clear the ground. Only then can he plow the fields. Fire before fields to make a farm."	
灰	ashes	The fire underneath the cliff will eventually turn everything above to ashes.	6	168	8		"Scene from ""The Big Lebowski"" : Walter scatters Donny's ashes, but a wind blows much of the ashes into ""The Dude"" Lebowski's face. Upset, The Dude lashes out at Walter. Walter apologizes and hugs The Dude, before suggesting ""Fuck it, man. Let's go bowling."" I bet you that The Dude wanted to cremate (fire) Walter right there and then, at the top of the cliff! (thanks Elktapestry)."	
照	illuminate	SHINING FLAMES illuminate!	13	170	8		"The sun was seduced to give us fire, by which we illuminate the night."	
漁	fishing	You need WATER and FISH for fishing.	14	172	8		"If you are confusing this with angling like me, take fishing to mean not the act of catching a fish but the act of being a fish not living but fishing (i.e. in the water)."	
墨	black ink	Theres BLACK on the GROUND...most likely someone spilt some black ink.	14	175	9		Anyone who has worked with laserjet ink cartridges will know the black ink looks like powdered dirt.	
量	quantity	"I did such a quantity of work that when NIGHT BREAK came, I was asleep on the COMPUTER."	12	177	9		"If you find that by nightbreak, you're still playing at your computer, chances are your World of Warcraft character has a high quantity of levels. [thanks to ssmoler] ..... To remember that nightbreak appears ABOVE computer, think of looking UP from your computer at the window to realize you've been playing until nightbreak."	
埋	bury	"You can't bury computers underground, because of the dangerous heavy metals, so you hide them behind an equally large mound of soil and hope no-one notices."	10	179	9		I used SOIL to BURY my COMPUTER.	
洞	den	All the animals in the den share the same water.	9	181	9		"""Den"" and ""cave"" also make me think of a monk's cell. Monks take vows of silence and fast. So a den is where you'd find nothing but water (to drink) and a monk."	
向	yonder	Look over yonder ! That tiny dot is robin hood at the mouth of his secret cave !	6	183	9		"There was an old woman named Wanda,// Who wanted to make herself blonder.// She covered her くち// With a glass hood from Gucci// And dropped some hair dye on from yonder."	
字	character	CHILDren learn Kanji characters underneath a HOUSE.	6	185	9		"""Why do I have to wear this roof on my head all the time father?"" ""Shut up! It builds character!""."	
完	perfect	Make the perfect impression in the beginning by removing your shoes upon entering a Japanese home.	7	187	9		"In the beginning, Adam and Eve had a home in Eden. It was perfect."	
宵	wee hours	I burn the CANDLE in my HOUSE until the WEE HOURS reviewing the kanji!!!	10	189	9		"I agree with elktapestry. This kanji really means ""early evening"", not ""wee hours"" [Heisig really should have done his homework on this and several other characters (e.g., #145 ""but of course"" -- what the hell???). Oh well.] ""Every house lights candles in the EARLY EVENING which stay lit until the wee hours"". E.G. 宵の口（よいのくち）early evening; 今宵（こよい）this evening; tonight."	
寄	draw near	"The strange house has a sign saying ""DRAW NEAR"" in its window, instead of a 'Beware' sign. It must be a trick!"	11	192	9		Imagine a horror movie set in a haunted mansion. The house is very strange. The characters draw near to one another for protection against the unknown.	
貯	savings	It takes a lot more than one clam of savings to buy a house on a street.	12	194	9		"My SAVINGS plan - I nail my moneybags up in the rafters below my roof. I'm very secretive about it, and I wear a disguise with a big mustache (another meaning of this kanji) while I stash my loot."	
林	grove	A grove has at least two TREEs.	8	196	10		Two tree huggers saying that protecting the environment is grovey man...　RTK2:　リン　森林　しんりん(woods and forests).	
桂	Japanese Judas-tree	"Simple mnemonic : ""The Japanese Judas-tree is the tree on which Judas hang himself to the ivy"" (Judas the traitor of the Christian bible). Just picture Judas hanging himself, using ivy as a if it was a rope."	10	198	10		"A tree covered in poison ivy will quickly betray you, thus the name JAPANESE JUDAS-TREE."	
枠	frame	wood at 90 (9 * 10) degrees.	8	200	10		Nine out of ten picture frames are made out of wood. The rest are made of metal or plastic.	
棚	shelf	A shelf is a wooden companion to books.	12	202	10		"I think of an Otaku, with a wooden shelf full of anime action figure statures, who are sadly his only companions."	
桐	paulownia	"In Japan, a paulownia (きり）is known as the ""princess tree"". It was once a traditional TREE planted at the SAME time as the birth of a daughter. It would grow fast enough that, at the time of her wedding, it could be used to make a dresser as a wedding present for her."	10	204	10		Paulownia is a Japanese tree which looks same as any other tree.	
枯	wither	A tree withers away as it gets old.	9	206	10		"When flowers get old they suffer (frame 225), but old trees just WITHER away painlessly. (Picture flowers crying in pain, but a dried up tree silent and sad)."	
村	town	"If you've ever played an old 8 bit or 16 bit RPG, like Dragon Warrior or Final Fantasy or Inindou, you'll remember that every town was all bordered off by a line of trees with no space in between to get out through. Imagine that the trees were glued together so you could only exit town through the main or side gates, (so you couldn't escape the important scripted scenes.)."	7	208	10		"Pfft. At it's core, a town is just a bunch of wood glued together. Edit - Stop starring this piece of crap story! xD."	
本	book	The origin of a book is paper made out of TREEs. ONE tree can make many books.	5	211	10		An axe cutting a tree to make books.	
暦	calendar	"Years-Months-Days: It takes many years for a cliff to form or erode. A tree takes many months to grow. But days pass by regularly - so in this way, we see the movement of time such as with a CALENDAR."	14	213	10		"This is just a picture of a wall calendar with a page for each month. The bottom half has the grid of days, the top half has a pretty picture of a forest this month. The cliff radical here is the top and left edges of the paper. You can see the paper curling up at the lower left where a breeze is trying to turn the page."	
燥	parch	"Tip: goods + wood/tree : This combination of primitives appears four times in Heisig, so it's worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""furniture"" (a common type of wooden goods). REF: parch (FRAME 215) , maneuver (#671), winding (#1369), seaweed (#2035). Story: It's been so parched recently that your furniture suddenly catches fire."	17	215	10		The parchment says you need fire to make goods from trees.	
末	extremity	"The tree has reached the extremity of its growth and no longer produces small, new branches at the top. Instead the existing top branch just grows longer and longer."	5	217	10		"There are no great stories for this one yet, and I always forget it.. So, let's try something ridiculous: The man lived by himself in the wilderness, with no females within miles. So, his only way of relief was to stick his extremity into a small hole in a tree.. The poor guy. Which horizontal stroke is the extremity? The longer one or the shorter one? That, my friends, is up to your own imaginations. I'd prefer not to dwell on that point, myself. ;)."	
味	flavor	My mouth has not yet swallowed the food because the flavor is so delicious that I keep chewing it.	8	219	10		"To enjoy a food's FLAVOR, it must be in one's MOUTH but NOT YET swallowed."	
朱	vermilion	It's autumn: only one vermilion leaf on the tree has not yet fallen.	6	221	10		[Cheat] Remember these as a set: The tree (木) is not yet (未)[correction wrong character before] vermilion (朱).	
若	young	The young little girl held a cute flower in her right hand.	8	223	10		"In Hawaii, if you wear a flower over your left ear, it means you are taken. A flower over the right means you are not. The younger you are, the more likely you are to have a flower over your right ear…　　　　　　RTK2: 　ニャク　老若　ろうにゃく (young and old)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　 ジャク　若干　じゃっかん(few)."	
苦	suffering	Flowers for the old man suffering in the hospital.	8	225	10		The derivates from opium poppies such as morphine can be used to tame the suffering of the old.	
薄	dilute	A Dr. missing his needle can only use dilute flower water for medicine.	16	227	10		"Note This character belongs to a set of characters which share the flower/water primitive such as:: dilute (#227), fall (#299), clan (#1912), and seaweed (#2035).... (落 薄 藩 藻) It may be helpful to create a primitive keyword for this occurrence (like seaweed or watering can) which can save a lot of time distinguishing them from characters like Sino 満 and Full 満, where the water primitive is larger than the flower primitive."	
模	imitation	"If I find out this furniture you're selling me is made of imitation wood, I'll put you in the graveyard."	14	229	10		"The Japanese are so enamored of everything plastic, they even put IMITATION plastic trees in their graveyards! (No, not really, but I wouldn't be surprised)."	
墓	grave	The soil under a graveyard is full of graves.	13	231	10		A grave is a patch of soil in a graveyard.	
膜	membrane	"In the moonlight of the graveyard I hear a zombie say, MMMMM..EMM...BRANEsssss."	14	233	10		The membranes in your flesh rot when placed in the graveyard.	
桃	peach tree	The pits of a peach tree look like turtles.	10	236	11		King Koopa consistently captures Princess Peach. Eventually he's going to run out of castles and just set her in a tree.	
犬	dog	"A large dog, dripping drool."	4	238	11		"If we remember large (#107) as a man with his arms outstretched, the drop represents man's best friend - a dog."	
黙	silence	"The computer won't stop beeping, which is making the chihauhua bark, and it's driving this guy insane. The only solution he can come up with is to throw them both on the fire and finally enjoy the silence."	15	240	11		"Your neighbor is so sick of you playing Led Zeppelin that he takes your copy of the song Black Dog and burns it. Finally, silence in the neighborhood."	
荻	reed	REEDS are the only FLOWERS that WILD DOGS like to FIRE up and smoke while they are playing poker.	10	242	11		A reed is a flower that looks like a hot dog.	
猫	cat	The cat hid in the FLOWERS of the FIELD from the WILD DOGs.	11	244	11		Dawgs always wanna put their seedlings in pussies.	
特	special	"Think of not special people, but special animals. The sacred Hindu cows are special - they can wander around the temple without fear of becoming roast beef."	10	246	11		"The Church Lady is traveling through Japan and notices with distaste a sacred cow relieving itself inside a Buddhist Temple. ""Well, isn't that special""."	
先	before	I've never seen a cow with human legs before!	6	248	11		"Nasty story but it keeps the meaning true to the kanji. ""BEFORE you stick it in a COW and SPREAD the legs (the bottom stroke of this cow looks like two legs) make sure she has HUMAN LEGS""-------------sorry, I'll remove if I get enough reports, but will keep if I get more stars."	
介	jammed in	"The two strokes at the bottom look like a J and I, which stands for ""jammed in.""."	4	250	12		Two people jammed in under an umbrella. A woman with a dress and a man (straight). It's always me that ends up getting wet.... but the tail of the skirt is this time!	
茶	tea	"Some people think drinking tea is boring and quaint. That's why I spice mine up by adding a cocktail umbrella, which of course is made from a wood-en toothpick supporting a paper umbrella with flowers printed on top."	9	252	12		"When I drink herbal tea I like to drink it under a parasol. If it's too hot I go ""ho, ho, ho !!"" (katakana ホ)."	
塔	pagoda	In order to build a pagoda in this small Japanese garden everything has to fit: the soil to the left and the flowers in the upper right corner.	12	254	12		"Pictograph-o-rama. This is a corner of a Japanese garden, with a small mound of soil on the left, and a little concrete pagoda in the front with flowers behind it. (To my eye, the fit looks a lot like a little pagoda anyway. This may or may not cause confusion for you, though...)."	
玉	jewel	The king is said to have only one family jewel below the belt...	5	256	12		"The king is said to have only one family jewel below the belt...and he hangs left! (I always screw up the direction of the ""drop"")."	
珠	pearl	The king of the Oysters produces special Vermillion pearls!	10	258	12		King Vermillion is a little queer and likes to wear pearl necklaces.	
皇	emperor	"Ancient Rome had Emperors instead of Kings, and they wore white robes. Thus an emperor is a king in white. (make sure you picture a roman emperor not a japanese one and you'll be ok)."	9	261	12		The white dove descended on the king and he was promoted to emperor.	
呈	display	The mouth of the king is displaying his bling.	7	262	12		"What a pathetic display! The king is sprawled on his throne, head back and mouth wide open, fast asleep. We should never have let him drink so much at that banquet last night."	
栓	plug	"The fat king under his umbrella offers useless advice to the workers. ""You'll need the whole tree to plug that gap"". Imagine a grossly fat, incompetent king under a parasol giving annoying advice to sweating workers who know what they're doing. (I always have trouble bringing up the ""whole"" primitive. This story reminds me how to build that part. )."	10	264	12		"To plug the hole, you need to use a whole piece of wood - like a cork or something."	
主	lord	A lord is a little drop down from King in hierarchy.	5	266	12		"Although this kanji's meaning hasn't caused me much trouble, I've had problems remembering the direction of the drop above king, since drops at tops of kanji often seem to appear in different directions. To remember this one, I think of the placement of the drop in jewel (#256). Both of them use the king primitive and include a short drop stroke going from the top left to bottom right."	
金	gold	The fat king taking up the whole space under the umbrella actually isn't fat - he just has two big gold bars hidden under his clothes.	8	269	12		"Under the umbrella's shade, the king sang, "" Drop it to the left, drop it to the right, give me all the GOLD in sight!""."	
鉢	bowl	"This is the BOWL of an alchemist: see how he mixes metals in his bowl, as he follows the instructions from his book?"	13	271	12		"If I was begging with a BOWL, I would want GOLD and BOOKS."	
釣	angling	All the people that go to the Japanese festivals to catch fish part time are suckers. Me? I'm a pro. I bring a big-ass golden ladle. I'm a true ANGLING professional.	11	273	12		Imagine an effeminate Roman 2000 years ago angling with a golden ladle instead of a rod because it matches his eyes and hair better and it impresses the boys. (Why a Roman? Because 'angling' is just the roman-derived way to say 'fishing' - use this to distinguish fishing from angling.).	
銘	inscription	"A piece of metal with a name on it. Well, this is basically the definition of inscription."	14	275	12		I imagine ancient Egyptian inscriptions: Pharaohs' names written in gold.	
道	road-way	"When we go out on the ROAD-WAY, we often risk our own necks (that's why I take the train! )."	12	277	13		"Watch as a villianous fiend stretches a poor damsel's neck over a dusty road. Her ear pressed to the ground, she can hear the rumble of a carriage thundering down the roadway. Will the hero save her in time? Or will her neck be ground into the road, spilling it's precious contents into the dust?"	
辻	crossing	Cross-road.	5	279	13		"This kanji appears in the remarkable compound, 辻斬り 【つじぎり】 (n): killing a passerby in order to test a new sword. Imagine a cross by the road, at a busy crossing, marking the spot of the unfortunate passerby's death."	
造	create	A cow creates a road by eating all the grass on its path.	10	281	13		CREATION is the ROAD to REVELATION (if you're feeling artsy) :).	
逃	escape	"I used my pants to make a rope, which I then used to escape from prison; hence the naked, hairy legs running along the road!"	9	283	13		A turtle version of frogger dodging cars to escape to the other side of the road...　　　RTK2:　トウ　逃走　とうそう(escape)...　　　　　　　MIXED GROUP:　桃236　(ﾁｮｳ): 兆235　眺237　挑658　跳1284.	
巡	patrol	The cops don't PATROL anymore - they just flood the road.	6	285	13		The Venice cops patrol on river roads.	
連	take along	When you put your car on the road you should always take along a few friends. Don't confuse with carry (#303).	10	287	13		"This kanji also means ""linked"" or ""series"" so I've changed the kanji meaning to ""GO ALONG (WITH EACH OTHER)."" Well, a ROAD and a CAR certainly GO ALONG with each other. And the CAR will help you to GO ALONG the ROAD. This Kanji is the ""Union"" in Soviet Union and the ""United"" of United Nations (the countries that ""go along with each other"" at least some of the time)."	
輸	transport	"The car is a cattle-car, used to transport animals for the butcher's meeting - a convention on new butchering techniques. Hear the screams of the animals as it pulls up in front of the convention hall, where the butchers are waiting with their knives out front."	16	289	13		The vehicle transports animals for a meeting with the butcher.	
各	each	"Son, I've never told you this but each woman has a second mouth between their fiiiiiine walking legs."	6	291	13		Each and every one of us walks and talks differently.	
略	abbreviation	There are so many abbreviations and acronyms nowadays that no brain can remember each of them. Mnemonic: ab-brain-each-ation.	11	293	13		A very anal farmer wants to catologue each grain of rice in his rice field. Imagine him scribbling a tiny abbreviation of his name and a number on each grain.	
額	forehead	Sign the guestbook page with your forehead. (Picture a guestbook full of forehead prints like thumbprints).	18	295	13		"In New Zealand, people welcome guests by touching their foreheads together."	
処	dispose	The best way to dispose of a nasty bit of wind is to let it go and use those walking legs to dissapear. Nobody will ever know it was you.	5	297	13		To dispose of rubbish you should walk it to the bin not throw it to the wind.	
落	fall	Water each flower or the petals will wither and fall.	12	299	13		"[It's been suggested on the forum (http://forum.koohii.com/viewtopic.php?id=1079) that flower across the full width of the kanji and water on the left below it should have its own keyword; seaweed is a popular choice. See also dilute (#227), clan (#1912), seaweed (#2035). This story is for the benefit of those using that idea.] Picture a group of Japanese skydivers falling through the sky -- suddenly each one opens, instead of a parachute, an enormous sheet of nori seaweed to carry them safely down."	
軍	army	British army cars are at the service of the crown.	9	301	14		Imagine a crown is the hood ornament on every army car.	
運	carry	"Don’t confuse it with “take along” (287). In that one, there was a car so you could take along your friends once you found them on the road. In this one, there is an army chariot just to carry military supplies (sorry no room for you)."	12	303	14		Roads carry armies (in contrast to seas carrying navies or skies carrying air forces).	
夢	dream	Last night's date with Miss Sweden was like a dream. She even laid flowers over my eyes to crown the perfect evening.	13	305	14		"In the movie American Beauty, Kevin Spacey liked to DREAM about his daughter's friend and have a rose petal fall onto his eye from the ceiling. He did this lying in his bed each evening. You can almost see him lying in his bed in this kanji."	
高	tall	"Two little aliens in a trenchcoat and top hat, trying to look TALL. The bottom one, in the glass helmet, is under the coat. The top one has his top hat pulled down in disguise, so all you can see is his mouth."	10	307	14		Here we have TWO MOUTHS each wearing a different hat. The top one is wearing a TOP HAT which is know to be as a TALL hat. The bottom one is wearing a SPACE HELMET which is known as an EXPENSIVE hat. (this kanji means both).	
塾	cram school	Welcome to our cram school: you will receive a rounded education on our grounds.	14	309	14		"""You can receive a well-rounded education if you study at our cram school"" says the advertisement. ""Just come to our school grounds and check it out yourself!""."	
亭	pavilion	The Pavillion on crown street is the tallest I have ever seen.	9	311	14		The tallest Pavilion crowns the street.	
涼	refreshing	"When you're a tourist in the capital during the heat of summer, finding a water fountain is oh, so refreshing."	11	313	14		"The water from the capital of Japan, Tokyo, is so refreshing!"	
鯨	whale	"If fish were cities, the whale would surely be the capital."	19	315	14		When the whale was first discovered it was the biggest fish people had ever seen. Stories exaggerated its size - people said it was as big as the entire capital city!	
周	circumference	"If my LIDDED CROCK has the same CIRCUMFERENCE as my head, I like to use it as a HELMET."	8	317	14		You're at a motorcycle store looking to buy a helmet. The only way to check the circumference of your head is to put increasingly larger lidded crocks on your head until one slips on just right. Now you know what size helmet to buy.	
士	gentleman	"What a handsome gentleman. Standing up so straight, and broad shoulders too!! He's like a modern samurai!"	3	319	14		A gentleman has broad shoulders and doesn't soil himself.	
壮	robust	Half of a turtle shell as a shield makes a samurai more robust.	6	321	14		The Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles are robust gentlemen aren't they?	
売	sell	"The samurai happened to find an extra large crown that he wore as a belt on his waist, just above his legs. I wonder if he will sell it to me?"	7	323	14		"A ""samurai"" will never sell his ""crown"" (king), even it meant having both his ""human legs"" chopped off!"	
覚	memorize	"In a schoolhouse in class: 1) you see something on the blackboard, then 2) you memorize it."	12	325	15		You'll never memorize all the kanji by seeing them in a school house. You need Heisig and RtK!	
書	write	Make sure you practice writing kanji with a brush every day before the sun goes down.	10	327	15		"The calligrapher had a peculiar habit: when using her brush to write, she would stick out her tongue, just slightly."	
牧	breed	"Imagine a taskmaster giving a cow the command to ""start breeding, and start doing it now!"", except that the cow takes his advice a bit too literally and starts chasing the taskmaster to carry out this command! instead of finding another cow to breed with. Hence, you see the taskmaster running to the right, trying to stay ahead of the cow."	8	329	15		"Hint: This is the kanji from which taskmaster is derived. Actually, this kanji has nothing to do with breed, and a lot to do with pastures and shepherds (also for cowboys, japanese and spanish don't differenciate between animals). Think of a cowboy (taskmaster) who brings his cows to the pasture."	
敗	failure	"If you end up in failure, you give money to the taskmaster to train you."	11	331	15		The shell who was defeated before (defeat (#63)) is being chastised by the taskmaster for his failure to win.	
故	happenstance	An OLD TASKMASTER is no happenstance (coincidence). The older you get the more rigid in your ways.	9	333	15		Need to disambiguate from enemy (#443) as it's easy to mix up antique and old here. Let's think of an accidental president -- he is an old taskmaster who has managed to win the election by happenstance .	
言	say	A pictogram of someone saying a four letter word from their mouth after the censors have gotten a hold of it.	7	335	15		This is simple a pictogram of a mouth SAYing something. The lines are soundwaves. No need to complicate it.	
計	plot	A plot is a summary of a book that can be given in ten words.	9	337	15		Say-ten's (satan's) evil plot.	
訂	revise	"Revise, revise and revise until you have all the words nailed down."	9	339	15		Remember how Martin Luther revised the words of the catholic church and nailed his 95 Theses at the door of the church in Wittenberg?	
訓	instruction	"The best type of Japanese INSTRUCTION is full immersion, which consists of going to Japan and swimming in the stream of words that surrounds you every day."	10	341	15		Listen carefully to the words of instruction before you try swimming in the river.	
詰	packed	WORDS of GOOD LUCK are PACKED into fortune cookies.	13	343	15		"Nowadays, grafitti comes pre-packaged. The factory takes a bunch of words and aerosol cans and then makes sure the words get tightly packed inside. All you have to do is spray and everything takes care of itself!"	
詠	recitation	"Listening to the words in a recitation of Vogon poetry is worse than spending an eternity in hell. [Note: I assume those 2 reports are to warn against possible confusion with poem (#346) but how can you confuse Vogon poetry with an actual poem? Anyway, it's the next frame, so it should be easy to keep them straight... Or maybe there's a kanji for Vogon in RTK3?]."	12	345	15		"If you study some words for a recitation, there is a good chance they will be stuck in your memory for all eternity."	
語	word	The simplest word to say is I.	14	347	15		May I say a word about that?	
調	tune	"To tune an old-fashioned radio, you turn the dial the full range of the circumference, until you can clearly hear what's being said."	15	349	15		words + circumference The most catchy tunes are words the go round and round the circuference of your head and you can't get it out of your mind.	
諾	consent	The words of the very young are useless without CONSENT from their elders.	15	351	15		"Delores might say, ""Yes!"", but she's way too young give any legal consent."	
式	style	Each Indian tribe crafts their arrows in a certain style..	6	353	16		The latest style is shirts crafted out of arrows.	
弐	II (two)	"II (older form of writing 2). After shooting one arrow (the dash top left), I have 2 arrows left in my quiver (bottom left)."	6	355	16		"Once you have two old arrows left in your quiver, you better start running...!"	
賊	burglar	Burglars... those guys!!! Burglars only want money (clams) so that they can get needles (drugs) and party (fiesta)!	13	357	16		"After the fiesta, we found out that some burglar had stolen our money, probably breaking in with a lockpick needle..."	
載	load	"After eating a big Thanksgiving dinner, you have to be careful in the car ride home not to drop a load in your pants."	13	359	16		"After 'Thanksgiving' dinner, my girlfriend gave me a BJ on the drive back home. I blew my 'load' and 'soiled' the 'car'. But it was LOADS of fun! Please report this story if this makes you feel uncomfortable :)."	
成	turn into	It only takes a single stroke of a dagger for a parade to TURN INTO a bloodbath.	6	361	16		The gay parade suddenly TURNED INTO a DAGGER throwing fight.	
誠	sincerity	Sincerity happens when what you say actually turns into something.	13	363	16		Sincerity is turning your words into actions.	
滅	destroy	Water flows down to destroy the march of fire.	13	365	16		"Use a water cannon to destroy a line of marching fire monsters. I keep mixing this one up with disaster (#167) and demolition (#400). Remember, you DESTROY monsters (think of the Godzilla movie ""Destroy All Monsters!""). Fires and floods are natural DISASTERs. And DEMOLITION is something you carefully do while wearing protective garments. (vaguely based on stefanot's balrog story)."	
桟	scaffold	Japanese festival floats are often so tall they need wood scaffolds to be completed. (http://www.japan-guide.com/e/e5909.html).	10	367	16		You need a SCAFFOLD made of WOOD to build a FLOAT if it will be several stories high.	
浅	shallow	The water can't be too SHALLOW if you expect to float.	9	369	16		The water isn't shallow enough to ford (#372). We'll have to cross by float!	
歩	walk	"When walking your pet, you must stop a few times along the way when nature calls."	8	371	17		"When you learn to walk, you take your steps a few at a time. Picture a clumsy but happy toddler who falls every few steps but keeps getting up to try again."	
頻	repeatedly	I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head. I repeatedly walk around hoping this kanji will come into my head.	17	373	17		"Are you familiar with the joke about the ditzy secretary who repeatedly walked back and forth forcibly over all the pages of her boss' most important letters. When confronted she just says ""Well you said they needed to be stamped before they're mailed.""."	
肯	agreement	A secret agreement between a covert gov't agency and aliens states that we will not step foot on the moon again in return for alien technology.	8	374	17		NASA and Armstrong made an agreement: They'd never tell anyone that no-one actually stepped foot on the moon.	
歴	curriculum	A CURRICULUM is a calendar that replaces days with reasons to stop having fun.	14	376	17		"A little like a calendar, your CV records your footsteps through time."	
賦	levy	A warrior stands guard at a bridge collecting shells as a levy for any who want to pass.	15	378	17		"""Drove my Chevy to the levy but the levy was dry. And those good old warrior boys, drinking whiskey and rye, said pay up the clams or you'll die. Pay up the clams or you'll die...""."	
証	evidence	Your words must be absolutely correct if you plan to use them as evidence.	12	380	17		"""If what you say is indeed correct, we could use use your testimony as evidence""."	
定	determine	"In The Karate Kid, the boy must prove his determination by MENDING his teacher's HOUSE in various ways."	8	382	17		"People who decide to renovate (ooh, that's a fancy word, let's say ""mend"") their houses must be very determined DIYers. (Using DIY helps me remember this story when I see DEtermine)."	
走	run	"Hint: This kanji is NOT soil on top of mend, as Heisig claims - that would duplicate one of the strokes. Instead, it is 10 on top of mend. So my story is: If you run 10 miles, you will need to mend your socks!"	7	384	17		The sports ground needs MENDING after the game as the players have been RUNNING around which has caused the ground to be chopped up.	
赴	proceed	"""Don't run into trouble,"" Dumbledore tells Harry. ""Proceed with caution with your wand out.""."	9	386	17		"While running, my magic wand tells me where to proceed."	
是	just so	'Sun' 'Mend' - It just so happens that sunshine can mend your gloomy spirits.	9	388	17		My image here is of Fabrice (the guy who runs this website) spending all day obsessively mending the code so this page looks just so....	
堤	dike	Making a dike is all about arranging the soil just so....	12	390	17		"The little Dutch boy has his finger stuck in the dike, and that's the only thing keeping his town from going under. He really really needs to go to the bathroom though, so he devises a plan to carefully add a bit of dirt - there, place individual bits in just so - there, I think it's good enough. Pull it out -----yes! Success!"	
延	prolong	Stretching correctly prolongs life. Even the top part of 正 is stretching...	8	392	17		"Here's a great mnemonic: ""stop, drop, and stretch (!?)."" Now let's associate it with 'prolong': if you're ever in an uncomfortable spot, like being asked tricky questions or caught in a lie, just PROLONG the situation - stop, drop, and stretch. They may be confused by your odd behaviour, but it'll buy you a few moments to think up another good lie to get out of the sticky situation!"	
礎	cornerstone	Features like stones and groves of trees are the cornerstones of a happy zoo.	18	394	17		"A zoo which is still under construction is already full of animals. At the moment, only the cornerstone has been set in place. To temporarily keep the animals from escaping, a closely-packed grove of small trees is planted around the stone. (Note that this zoo needs some serious mending.)."	
衣	garment	The only garments allowed in this club are top hat and scarf.	6	396	18		"The garments most commonly associated with the craft of a magician are the top hat and the magic wand. (It's a stretch, but the way I remembered this kanji is through that phrase. This way you can remember it through using primitives we have already learned.)."	
装	attire	The TURTLE SAMURAI needs special GARMENTs for his ATTIRE since his body is much more ROBUST than others.	12	398	18		"The ninja turtles tried to go eat at a fancy restaurant, but they were told to come back after their were dressed in proper attire. However, it's too difficult for them to find proper garments because they bodies are so robust! (sannomiya + drwarrior12)."	
壊	demolition	"If you stand too close to a DEMOLITION site, the dust might sting you like NEEDLES in your EYE and get your GARMENTs all dirty."	16	400	18		"Since that needle eye thing turns up a lot, I turned it into Darth Vader. It kinda looks like him to me, with the eye being his metal mouth piece thing. So, Darth Vader swings his cape (his garment) demolishing a nearby building, leaving nothing but a pile of dirt."	
遠	distant	Keep distant from a lidded crock on the road wrapped in a scarf. It might be a bomb.	13	402	18		"When traveling to a distant land, what better way of keeping warm on the road is there than carrying a warm lidded crock and wearing a scarf?"	
初	first time	"""This is the first time we've been out of the Shire, Mr. Frodo!"" Says Sam, covering himself with his cloak and clutching his dagger."	7	404	18		"On his FIRST TIME, he cloaked his dagger with a Trojan."	
帆	sail	"When stranded at sea, we needed a Sail. The best we had was a TOWEL, which was MEDICORE, only catching a DROP of WIND."	6	406	18		A towel makes a mediocre sail.	
帽	cap	"If you wear a towel as a cap, you are at risk of being seized and searched in U.S. airports."	12	408	18		Originally the first cap was a turban which was a towel wrapped around the head to keep the sun out of the eyes.	
幌	canopy	A canopy is a towel to block the suns rays.	13	410	18		"From the Hitch-Hiker's Guide to the Universe: A towel is useful, among other things, as a canopy to keep out the sun's rays from your face while napping."	
市	market	"My recurring nightmare: Walking through the market, and suddenly realizing that I'm wearing only a top hat...and a towel."	5	412	18		At the MARKET you find lots of nice TOP HATS and TOWELS.	
肺	lungs	LUNGS are a PART of the BODY that can be found at any meat MARKET or black MARKET.	9	414	18		"The PART OF THE BODY most important if you work at a MARKET is your LUNGS so that you can shout out at the top of your voice ""IRASSHAIMASEEE"" to attract customers."	
帯	sash	"First, note that the top half of the kanji consists of one and mountain. Of course, the ""number 1"" mountain in Japan is Mt. Fuji. The bottom half, under Mt. Fuji, consists of crown and towel. Now for the story. Archaeologists digging under Mt. Fuji (Japan's #1 mountain) in an ancient royal tomb (they know it's royal because of the crown) discover what looks like a towel, but after they clean it up, they see it is actually a splendid royal sash for the king's kimono."	10	415	18		"Beautiful ""Miss Housewife Japan"" is on posters everywhere, cooking right before Mt. Fuji (the number one mountain) while wearing nothing but her crown, and an apron tied with a sash. (hodgepodge of mspertus, zwarte_kat, et al, with a jot of hadaka apron to focus the image.)."	
刺	thorn	"A TREE with a BELT wrapped around the middle. If you tighten the BELT, hundreds of tiny SABERS pop out of the tree in all directions, looking like THORNS."	8	417	18		The BELT TREE has THORNS like SABERS.	
製	made in...	Made in china - a system of exploitation . making garments for nothing.	14	419	18		A SYSTEMATICALLY made GARMENT will no doubt have MADE IN on the label.	
芸	technique	"Imagine an old Kung-fu movie: ""Try my rising cloud flower technique!!!"" smash pow crack!! ."	7	421	18		One technique to smoke weed is to vaporize it and inhale those rising clouds to create a stronger effect.	
雲	cloud	Every rising cloud is a potential rain cloud. (Thanks astridtops).	12	423	18		Every cloud is a potential rain cloud.	
雷	thunder	"If it's raining and you're standing in the middle of a rice field, you're sure to soon become acquainted with the thunder up close and personal."	13	425	18		"Thunder is a sure sign of rain coming. When you hear the thunder, you've got time to get out of the field before it starts raining."	
冬	winter	"Don't slip off your legs in winter, strap two skis to your feet."	5	427	18		In winter my walking legs feel like blocks of ice.	
橋	bridge	"The nicest bridge is not in Hollywood or Los Angeles, but in San Francisco."	16	429	18		"A small 5 year old child has lost her mother in a tragic death. Her family tells her, ""Don't worry, your mom is an angel now, in heaven, watching over you."" The small girl takes this very literally and is found one day, gathering pieces of wood. Her dad asks her, ""What are you doing with that wood?"" ""I'm trying to build a bridge to heaven to visit the angels.""."	
立	stand up	A vase that can't stand up won't be a vase for long.	5	431	18		"He was a stand up guy: he'd lend you the top hat he wears everyday if you asked, and he will turn everything upside down to help you find your tools."	
章	badge	"In the military, badges are given out early in the day, with everyone standing at attention."	11	433	18		"Ash Ketchum stood up early in the morning, and said, ""Pikachu, let's go get us another badge!""."	
競	vie	TWO twin BROTHERS are competing (VYING) for the title of who is the older BROTHER. The game is that they must balance a VASE on their head and the one who drops his looses and becomes the younger BROTHER!	20	434	18		Two crazy brothers vying for the guiness records books of stupidity by trying to stand on their heads the longest.	
童	juvenile	The juvenile stood on top of his computer and broke it. Noob.	12	436	18		"The movie Zoolander is a little JUVENILE and silly, but I love it nonetheless. Just remember Owen Wilson standing on the desk, hitting the computer like a monkey. (The files are IN the computer - IN the computer...)."	
鐘	bell	The METAL bell rings to call the JUVENILES to class.	20	438	18		The METAL bell rings to call the JUVENILES to COMPUTER class.	
嫡	legitimate wife	Legitmate wifes tend to be women who are antiques in contrast to the young bit of illigitmate fluff on the side.	14	440	18		Your legitimate wife is like an antique bong. Its not your favorite but you still hit it sometimes...	
滴	drip	DRIPS of WATER were collected in ANTIQUE VASES since the museum had a leaky roof.	14	442	18		You must never let water drip onto antiques.	
匕	spoon	"To remember the primitive meaning, picture someone sitting on the ground performing Seppuku...with a spoon. http://tinyurl.com/co48k."	2	444	18		"Not only is stroke order important, but also be sure to note the direction of a stroke. In both 'spoon' and 'seven', the first stroke is the horizontal one - but here it is written right to left in a downward flick, while in 'seven' it is a strong line from left to right."	
背	stature	"While japanese people are generally small, people in the northern contryes have taller stature because of all the flesh they eat!"	9	446	18		"Up in the Great White North, we eat a lot of meat - thus giving us great STATURE. Mmmm.... baby seals."	
昆	descendants	Grandparent spends all DAY COMPARING photos of their DESCENDANTS.	8	448	18		"Japanese people have compared themselves as being descendants of the sun. (Amaterasu, the sun godesss). Sun, comparing = descendants."	
混	mix	"People have to mix their fluids (have sex), in order to create descendants."	11	450	18		Give plants the right mix of water and sun. Then compare the results...　RTK2:　コン　混乱　こんらん(disorder).	
謁	audience	The talk was so boring the audience took a siesta.	15	452	18		The man talking during his siesta (in his sleep) is saying strange things and drawing an audience.	
褐	brown	Why is my package late? Imagine a UPS driver dressed in BROWN garments taking a siesta. What can BROWN do for you?	13	453	18		Mexicans use a cloak (pancho) for their siestas. Their color is usually brown.	
旨	delicious	Use a spoon to eat a DELICIOUS hot fudge sundae. Duh..	6	455	18		It's sooo delicious I could spoon it in all day.	
壱	I (one)	"I am 'the one' , says the samurai with the crown around his waist and a spoon up his a***."	7	457	18		The samurai who has been crowned number one is so good he uses a spoon to fight with rather than a sword.	
敏	cleverness	Every master(or taskmaster) must have some degree of cleverness.	10	459	18		Cleverness is something every taskmaster must have. Every taskmaster has cleverness.	
海	sea	Every drop of water will eventually return to the sea.	9	461	18		"As depicted in the classic SF film Fantastic Voyage, every drop of water is a sea, if you look close enough. Imagine peering through a microscope at a vast sea teeming with microbial life (and perhaps a minaturized submarine). Note: Take care not to confuse with ocean (#549)."	
乾	drought	"During a drought, everything begs for even a mist for relief."	11	463	18		Beggar has to drink mist because there is no water in the drought. I get this one confused with thirst 451 but try to remember that there is no water element beacuse it is a drought.	
複	duplicate	"My girlfiend saw someone wearing the exact same (duplicate) outfit at a party, so she doubled back to change!"	14	465	18		"In Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban, Hermione uses a device called a ""time-turner"" to double back in time, but this creates duplicates. The smart thing to do would be to combine Hermione's time-turner with Harry's invisibility cloak. That way, one could double back in time without creating any visible duplicates."	
吹	blow	"This is clearly a BLOWJOB, we can see the MOUTH and the LACK OF condom. (I am sorry for the image, but it sticks forever in your mind)."	7	467	18		I keep confusing this with suck (#689). Consider someone blowing bubbles using their chewing gum because they're lacking attention in class.	
歌	song	"Can-Can-ers lack the ability to sing a song, so they just dance."	14	469	18		"Can-can dancers are supposed to be big-bosomed girls who dance. Yet these so called can-can dancers are flat-chested and singing a song, so audience of men is yawning in boredom."	
次	next	"Is this store lacking ice? Let's try the next one, then."	6	471	18		"A rapper called ""Ice"" went for auditions but was told he lacked talent. Next..."	
資	assets	Assets are the next best thing to money.	13	473	18		"The first SHELLS you get you obviously spend, but the NEXT SHELLS are your ASSETS, you should bury them in a low safe place (placement!)."	
諮	consult with	"Having a word with the next mouth over, like a neighbor, is usually a good way to consult with somebody for cheap. Because, you know, actual consultants charge huge sums."	16	475	18		"""Consulting with"" is having words with the next mouth."	
培	cultivate	"To cultivate the land is to tame it, control it. In short, you muzzle it's unruly, chaotic nature."	11	477	19		The illegal immigrants cultivate the land but are socially and politically muzzled (wear muzzles while they work too).	
音	sound	"If you were standing on the sun, believe me, you'd be making sound."	9	479	19		"The tongue wagging in a mouth produces a very high-pitched sound, breaking a nearby vase."	
暗	darkness	Picture the sun exploding - there would be a gigantic noise and then...nothing. Everything would plunge into darkness.	13	480	19		"In places of complete darkness, such as caves where the sun can't reach, creatures such as bats have learned to navigate by sound rather than sight. The poor guys must have to fly around screaming ""Marco!"" and ""Polo!"" all the time."	
識	discriminating	Words are difficult to discriminate/discern from sounds in the middle of a fiesta.	19	482	19		I have discriminating taste. I'd rather listen to the words of a lecture than attend a kazoo concert. (Picture some snobby guy in a tweed jacket turning up his nose at entering a loud raucous kazoo recital).	
境	boundary	"In the dense cities of Japan even a small garden is a luxury. In this house, the owner has put mirrors on the boundary of his land so it feels much bigger."	14	484	19		"This is an old trick to keep out migrants. You put a bunch of dirty mirrors on the boundary of your land and theirs. When they approach the boundary, what they see in the mirror is their own land and someone that looks like themselves, only dirtier, so they figure your country isn't any better than their own and they head back home."	
盲	blind	Deceased eyes! Easy ;).	8	486	19		A person with deceased eyes is blind.	
荒	laid waste	"After Godzilla laid waste to the city, the survivors put some flowers on the bodies of the deceased and floated their bodies down the stream."	9	488	19		"Laying waste is just a euphamism for flushing poop down the toilet. It smells nothing like flowers, more like deceased flowers, and it's flushed down into a stream of sewage. Use ""waste"" to avoid destroy (#365) demolition (#400)."	
方	direction	Note: The primitives are top hat and bound up. Compare ten thousand (#64). Story: A rich man wearing a top hat and bound up from head to toe hobbles up to you and asks for directions to the nearest police station because he just escaped from his kidnappers.	4	490	19		I always keep my directions bound to the bottom of my top hat so I won't lose them.	
坊	boy	Little boys always head in the direction of mud and dirt.	7	492	19		Boys thoughts often head in dirty directions.	
肪	obese	"""Flesh in all directions"" = obese."	8	494	19		"Yo momma so obese, she changed the direction of the moon."	
訪	call on	"When you call on someone, you point your words in their direction."	11	495	19		"When calling on a girl, you'd better what what sweet words will turn her fancy in your direction. (Image: last century teenagers on a frilly couch in the sitting room, she with her back to him, and he fumbling for the right words to turn her around)."	
激	violent	"When the taskmaster found his favorite white compas damaged by water, he became the most violent taskmaster there ever was."	16	497	19		Overnight the slave got Violent and was Set Free. Overnight....Set Free.	
説	rumor	The words of a horny teenager typically fall into one of two categories: either rumors or explanations.	14	499	19		The words of the devil incite rumours and false explanations.	
曽	formerly	"The Artist formerly Known as Prince has the horniest brain around, and I think you can imagine what his wagging tongue is doing..."	11	501	19		"Formerly, horned animals were used to plough the ricefield, and it took all day. Nowadays it's done by machine."	
贈	presents	Presents represent money that was formerly yours.	18	503	19		"Imagine if the number of presents you get increases with each birthday. So on your first birthday, you receive just one shell as a present, but the next year it increases to two shells as presents, and so on, increasing and increasing so by the time you're elderly, the number of shells you'll get as presents will have increased to an awful lot of presents. GOT IT YET? PRESENTS = SHELLS + INCREASE."	
棟	ridgepole	Feng Shui states that the ridgepole of a house should be made of wood and face east.	12	505	19		"Ok just a note to the 'ridgepole facing east story' im making up a story to JUSTIFY why that is the case. Assuming that 99% of you guys use the age old story of a 'sun rising through a tree tells you were the east is', back in those days when people used ridgepoles they wanted to align their houses in such a way that they face the rising sun, so they wake up with a bright day, and wake up early with the sun seeping through in a perpendicular manner( as the ridge pole faces the sun in the morning)."	
妊	pregnancy	A pregnant woman is a porter of her child.	7	507	19		The gentleman gave the woman a bit of sperm...BAM PREGNANCY!	
廷	courts	A porter has run away from his master. His punishment is to be stretched out on the rack. So say the courts in this barbaric time.	7	508	19		The gentleman stretched the truth a bit in court.	
染	dye	"To make this dye, I used water and the barks of nine different trees."	9	509	20		The baseball team hangs their freshly dyed dripping jerseys at the top of a tree to dry.	
燃	burn	Any sort of thing can burn in the fire.	16	510	20		"Somebody from PETA is really angry that they sell dog meat in China, so they've gone to burn down the whole cart (my mnemonic for ""sort of thing"" was seeing strips of dog flesh roasting, and saying ""well, that's just the sort of thing they do here in China)."	
歳	year-end	"Santa had to put his foot down to stop a march of little guys, namely elves. They were protesting the harsh treatment they get every year-end when Santa asks them to step up toy production for the holiday season."	13	512	20		"At the year-end, everything seems to come to a stop. However, there's still enough time for a little march to celebrate."	
県	prefecture	"In Japanese this is KEN, as in Barbie's boyfriend. He has lovely blue eyes, a girlfriend who is as thin as a straightened out fish hook. But, down where it counts, he has very little to show..."	9	513	20		"After sticking a fishhook in your eye, the yakuza boss probably has little more to do to convince you to move to a different prefecture."	
地	ground	"Picture the ground as an extent of soil where scorpions are buried like land mines. Imagine a sign post saying 'no trespassing, scorpion mines' if that helps, and how it is dangerous to walk there."	6	515	21		The soil is littered with scorpions everywhere and no ones dares put their foot on the ground.	
虫	insect	"I see the bottom of this kanji as an arm, and the top is an insect biting into the arm, sucking some blood."	6	517	21		Insect in one drop of amber. Think Jurassic Park.	
蛇	snake	"A snake eats insects and he does that outside, while we eat in the house and preferably with a spoon."	11	519	21		"Solid Snake crawled like a bug, infiltrated my house, and took out everyone with a spoon."	
蝶	butterfly	A butterfly is an insect that appears after spending a generation on a tree as a cocoon.	15	521	21		"Butterflies are insects that like to eat just the flowers but leave the leaves behind. (helps me to think of the kanji for leaves, minus the flower bit)."	
蚕	silkworm	"There are no insects in heaven - well, that is, except for silkworms. What, do you expect Jesus to import his fancy robes from China?"	10	523	21		In China it was believed that the silkworms were insects sent from heaven because of the beautiful material they produced.	
風	wind	They say that when an INSECT flaps its wings even the single DROP of WIND that it creates is sometimes enough to create a hurricane on the other side of the Earth.	9	524	21		"The WIND usually carries things around in it - drops of rain or snow, and lots of insects."	
起	rouse	"Be careful when you're RUNNING through the jungle, because you might step on and ROUSE a sleeping SNAKE. Then you'll have to RUN like hell before it bites you!"	10	526	21		Nothing will rouse you quite as much as finding a snake in your bed. You will run away like you've never run before!	
改	reformation	"The taskmaster of Slytherin ( wizardry house symbolized by a snake ) plans a reformation of Hogwarts, disallowing the study of magic to all muggle-born. こわいですね！."	7	528	21		"This is a Meiji reformation taskmaster, trying to force usage of the Roman alphabet in Japan in place of Kanji. He holds a snake in the shape of the letter S and tries to explain how much simpler this is (j/k)."	
包	wrap	The snake bound up its prey by wrapping his body around it.	5	530	21		"Imagine Jessie sending in her Ekans (snake pokemon), and telling it to use bind attack to wrap up pikachu."	
砲	cannon	Primitive cannons fired stones wrapped with poisonous snakes.	10	532	21		Cannon = stone projectile wrapped by a barrel.	
亀	tortoise	"It seems bizarre, but tortoises are a genetic cross with the head of a fish and the tail of an eel. Where the shell comes from, no one knows."	11	534	21		A tortoise is prosperity bound up with a tail. They are very lucky creatures.	
電	electricity	"Think of a two natural sources of electricity: electrical storms (a form of weather) and electrical eels. 電話 でんわ phone, call."	13	535	21		"This kanji was invented by the first Chinaman to discover electricity. He was so unfortunate, he stepped on an electric eel and got struck by lighting at the same time."	
滝	waterfall	The Water Dragon dwells in the waterfall.	13	537	21		"Ever went under a waterfall, vase in hand, trying to catch eels from the water as it pours down?"	
逐	pursue	"In association with consummate (#540), our sow is on the road pursuing a mate."	10	539	21		The pig is on the road in the pursue of the turtle who is trying to escape (#283). (See story on escape (#283) & consummate (#540)).	
家	house	"Think of ""The Three Little Pigs"". There was a house made of straw, another made of sticks, and a third made of bricks, each occupied by a pig. So, naturally, housetop over pig means house, the central element of that story."	10	541	21		"Man, ever hear of cleaning? This house is a pig sty."	
豪	overpowering	"In Orwell's 'Animal Farm' the pigs overpowered every other animals. They crownded themselves as ruler of the farm and walked tall on their rear legs, a crime strictly forbidden in the animal republic."	14	543	21		"Ganon, the tall crowned pig, has been overpowering ther land of Hyrule for decades."	
場	location	"You're looking for a good location to bury your piggy bank savings. It has to be in some soft soil that's easy to dig up, well hidden, and easy to rememger like this kanji."	12	545	21		"Don't confuse with place (#1127). Think of location not as a single fixed spot, but as the act of locating. You've buried your piggy bank in the dirt in your backyard, but you can't remember where. You frantically dig everywhere in a process of location to find your piggy bank."	
湯	hot water	"Imagine a hot water kettle for your tea, except this one is a pink piggy bank that pours the water from its snout (and squeals when the water is piping hot). Make sure to use a potholder!"	12	546	21		"Hot water is a phrase that can mean ""getting into trouble."" This kanji pictures just one of the many meanings of that phrase: it's water that you get into (with creditors and the like) when your piggy bank is empty!"	
美	beauty	I guess this kanji proves it's not just the Welsh whose idea of beauty is a large sheep.	9	548	21		A Sheep on top of a dog is NOT a beautiful thing.	
詳	detailed	"Trembling from head to hoof from such a traumatic experience, the sheep gives a very detailed worded account to the detective about his wolf attack. ""We need more details Mr. Sheep. Tell us exactly where the baaad man touched you""."	13	550	21		"Say! detailed sheep, not like that! DE-TAILED sheep. Got it?"	
達	accomplished	"Dolly (the first cloned sheep ever) grow tired of being a celebrity and escaped from the labs by digging a tunnel. She turned out to be an ACCOMPLISHED escapist, as she managed to dig a road under the soil. /Imagine Dolly performing a escape, like those movies where the main character has to escape from jail."	12	552	21		The dirty sheep had come far down this road and had accomplished many things.	
差	distinction	This New-Zealand pro-gamer has won many distinctions playing WoolCraft (a massively multi-user game in which the goal is to shear sheep).	10	554	21		"Noob players make no distinction between what games they play, whether it's the geniune thing or a bootleg fake copy. The biggest example of course, would be the legit World of Warcraft and the biggest ripoff there is: World of Wool-craft!"	
唯	solely	"The mouth of a turkey is used solely for saying, ""Gobble."" Likewise, your mouth, full of turkey, is solely used to gobble it up."	11	556	21		Sadly my mouth gets to taste turkey solely on Christmas Day.	
礁	reef	"Coral reefs are now dying off due to our abuse of the environment and now look like charred stone. For a picture illustrating this, see http://www.nacri.org/images/Hof-dredgingfig8.jpg."	17	558	21		"Reefs are often formed from volcanic rock, or ""rock that has been charred""."	
集	gather	"Hunter-gathers, searching all along the ground for food. They never look up and see the Turkeys that have gathered on top of the trees to hide. Those were some smart turkeys!"	12	559	21		Gather the turkeys for Thanksgiving. Gather the trees for Christmas. In that order...	
進	advance	"Why did the turkey cross the road? To advance to the other side, of course."	11	561	21		"[re: raulir] Animals on the road: Turtles escape (#283) and Pigs pursue (#539), while the Turkeys advance (looking very formidable indeed)."	
雌	feminine	Stop | spooning | turkeys. Spoon females.	14	563	21		To become feminine you must stop using a spoon to eat turkey and use a knife and fork like a proper lady.	
奮	stirred up	The St. Bernard dog pounces on a turkey in a rice field and stirs up all the other birds around. See them all gobble gobbling in fear?	16	565	21		"Gruesome, but it makes it easy to remember. Here goes: The St. Bernard stirred up a crowd of turkeys and caught one. It bit the head, brains spilling onto the rice field."	
確	assurance	"To assure that no one will get into the Turkey coop, put a huge rock in the entrance!"	15	567	21		"You've heard the expression ""killing two birds with one stone."" (一石二鳥 is-seki-ni-chou). We'll, there's another one that roughly translates as ""killing an entire coop with a giant boulder. "" That's the method that hunters use when they want absolute assurance of taking home a bird."	
午	noon	Noon is a good time for a ten minute nap (using lie down as nap).	4	568	21		Noon is the hour of the horse.	
歓	delight	Imagine a spoiled little girl. Her delight when she gets a Pegasus for her birthday... and then like all spoilt little girls she gets bored of it quickly... hence the yawn.	15	570	21		I would be delighted if Japanese lacked the Pegasus kanji.	
観	outlook	Microsoft Outlook works about as well as a pegasus that can't see: they both crash all the time.	18	572	21		"I used to hate birds.They're loud, stupid and worst of all they shit on your head. Used to think birds were the most vile creatures on earth. Then I encountered a pegasus. I was just walking down the road, minding my own business when I happened to look up. I saw it there, braying noisily, ivory wings outstretched like an angel, back leg raised ever so slightly. It dropped a steaming brown load right on my face. It changed my outlook completely. Birds are the second most vile creatures on earth."	
習	learn	"Imagine a white bird loosing a couple feathers as it is learning to fly. You learn a lesson as you watch it doing so, maybe you learn that “nothing comes for free” or that “one has to be prepared to loose in order to gain”..."	11	574	21		Learning is all about adding more feathers to your cap and the most prestigious of all is the beautiful pure white feather you'll receive when you have learned the kanji!	
曜	weekday	"Tip: feathers + turkey : This combination of primitives appears six times in Heisig, so it's worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""futon"" (your futon is made from turkey feathers). REF: weekday (FRAME 576) , laundry (#577), leap (#1285), outstanding (#2272), twinkle (#2534), shimmering (#2880). Story: On weekdays you hang your futon out in the sun."	18	576	21		"The poor farmer spends every weekday while the sun shines, plucking turkey feathers."	
濯	laundry	"At the laundry you stuff your large futon (made from turkey feathers) in the machine, thereby causing it to break -- as shown by the water spurting out the side."	17	577	21		"When turkeys do the laundry, they put their feathers in water (they don't have clothes)."	
困	quandary	"I'm supposed to make an enclosure for my tree, but if I use its wood for the enclosure, there won't be anything left to be pent-in. What a quandary!"	7	579	22		"You are pent in the garden of eden with one tree, but outside is the whole world to explore! What a quandary -- should you stay in paradise with the tree of knowledge or should you go out into the world?"	
国	country	In my country (England) the crown jewels are kept pent-in in the Tower of London. Which happens to be where enemies of the state were once also pent-in (probably for trying to steal those jewels).	8	581	22		"Just think of Japan, a country which is like a jewel but historically very enclosed."	
因	cause	We once had a dog with big paws // and oh what great trouble he'd cause // we built a huge pen // to keep him pent in // and stop him from breaking more laws //.	6	583	22		"Why is there poop on the kitchen floor? Oh, the cause is that you kept the dog pent in the house all day. Next time remember to walk him."	
園	park	"A nice picnic pent up in the park, with your crock pot and scarf (picnic blanket)."	13	585	22		There was a homeless man living in a box at the park so I gave him a lidded crock filled with hot curry tied with a scarf...　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　エン　庭園　ていえん(Japanese garden)…　　　　　　　　　　Pure Group:　遠402　猿403.	
壇	podium	A man on the podium announce the rules for the contest: You must fill a top hat with dirt as many times as you can by nightbreak.	16	587	22		"Abraham Lincoln used a simple mound of soil for a podium, when he wore his top hat and gave the speech he had practiced many times until nightbreak. But it was so magnificent that no one noticed."	
店	store	Try to remember all those stores from Zelda that were inside caves and had fortune-teller like vendors.	8	588	22		The fortuneteller has a store in a cave.	
庭	courtyard	"When the courthouse caved in, trials had to be held in the courtyard."	10	590	22		"Back in caveman days, courts were held in caves. When too many people showed up to watch, they spilled out into the courtyard (the yard outside the cave court ) . 庭 (にわ): garden, yard, compound 庭園 (ていえん): garden, park 校庭 (こうてい): schoolyard."	
床	bed	The two safe places to sleep in the wilderness are in a tree and in a cave. So these can be considered as beds.	7	592	22		(based on mspertus:) The two safe places to sleep in the wilderness are in a tree and in a cave. So to be on the safe side it is best to put a tree in a cave and use it as a bed.	
磨	grind	If you grind the hemp you are bound to get stoned quicker.	16	594	22		You must GRIND the HEMP collected in the grove by your cave on solid STONE to make the best ropes.	
忘	forget	You only truly forget her when she has perished in your heart.	7	596	22		To forget means that something perishes from your heart.	
忍	endure	"A ninja must be able to endure the pain of clinging to a ceiling, motionless, for hours at a time, waiting for just the right moment to drop down and thrust the blade of his sword into the hearts of his enemies. By the way, this character is used in the compound 忍者 (ninja) which is why I choose to use ninja as its primitive meaning."	7	597	22		Someone with a razor blade stuck in their heart has to endure the pain wherever they go and can tell no one about it.	
忌	mourning	"Remember the tale of Cleopatra? She was MOURNING the loss of her Marc Antony, so she placed the asp SNAKE to her HEART."	7	599	22		"You are mourning the death of a relative, and it feels as if a snake had bitten into your heart. -- ""mourning feels like snake-bitten heart""."	
誌	document	A will is an important document that contains your final word on how you intend to distribute your assets.	14	601	22		This is quite simple: a document is a set of words describing your intentions.	
串	shish kebab	"Naka naka , ""who's there?"" shish kebab .... ""shish kebab who?""."	7	603	22		This is a pictograph if ever I saw one. Two chunks of meat on a skewer.	
思	think	Think with your brain NOT your heart.	9	605	22		To think is to use your brain over your heart.	
応	apply	"[bravo, scottamus!] To apply for the job as a (replacement) Batman, you have to make it to the heart of the cave past all the traps he set up to test you. There, you see a table with the application form on it. Now that you think about it, the ad in the paper did say ""Those who don't make it to the heart of the cave need not apply.""."	7	607	22		"In the videogame Zelda, Link enters a CAVE to visit a fairy that will APPLY magic to fill his HEART containers."	
意	idea	"When you get a good IDEA you get excited and you can hear the SOUND of your HEART, it's pounding so hard."	13	608	22		"Picture someone who's just had a great idea, but in place of a blinking light bulb over their head, you see a heart thumping with great noise. Imagine the greater the idea, the louder the sound of the beating heart."	
息	breath	Your breath brings oxygen in through your nose which is then pumped around your body by your heart.	10	610	22		"I think I've met my dream girl, but there's a problem. her breath is horrible! So, do I listen to my nose or my heart?"	
恵	favor	"Too easy. Imagine the Wizard of OZ. There, the three heroes asked the Wizard for three FAVORS: the lion wanted courage of TEN men, the scarecrow wanted a BRAIN, and the tin man wanted a HEART. Ok, the lion bit is stretching but you have it memorized now, so who cares?"	10	612	22		Do yourself a favor and take ten minutes to think about your decison...　RTK2:　エ　知恵　ちえ(wisdom)　　　ゴ　互恵　ごけい(reciprocal).	
惑	beguile	"She was beguiled/mislead by his charm: at the party he kissed her on the mouth, they did it on the floor and thus he stole her heart. Poor girl!"	12	614	22		"The same cowboy from frame # 356 (elements mouth, floor and fiesta), kisses the floor with his mouth, once again, before going to the fiesta. There, he uses his good looks to beguile women (gets them to buy him drinks or such), by playing with their hearts."	
憂	melancholy	Melancholy makes me think of Hamlet cause he was so 'emo'. In order to play up his feelings he bares his head and holds his crown over his heart then walks (on walking legs) around the palace making everyone see how melancholy he is. What a wuss.	15	616	22		"This is an image of the crucifixion. Jesus is on the cross. His crown of thorns has slipped down and is around his neck, right between his head and his heart. His walking legs can be seen dangling from the cross as well. How MELANCHOLY!"	
忙	busy	"Busy (as in ""occupied"") means a state of mind where all other thoughts are perished."	6	618	22		"^^^Make the ""state of mind"" primitive Data (from Star Trek) instead right now and save yourself the headache; 'state of mind' is too vague! (Data can stay so busy as not to sleep without dying. He's a robot)."	
恒	constancy	Constancy is holding the same state of mind over a long span of time. (tweaking PepeSeco and mspertus).	9	620	22		"Data is the epitome of constancy. As a robot, his consistency spans the entire day."	
悼	lament	"When the world's most eminent magician died, everyone's state of mind became that of lamentation. He was buried with his famous sun-flower wand in his hand."	11	621	22		"Data laments that he could never see his eminent father, his creator, ever again. He paints a picture of his father, that looks like a sunflower in the shape of a magic wand."	
怖	dreadful	Someone in a dreadful state of mind has crawled into his bed and is hiding under the sheets (linens).	8	623	22		"Being an android, Data is white as a sheet. Doctor Crusher always has to remind herself that this is perfectly normal. From a doctor's perspective, he really does look dreadful."	
悔	repent	"""For all have sinned..."" so everyone's state of mind should be to repent."	9	625	22		"When you repent, you heal your state of mind by going over every thing you regret doing."	
慣	accustomed	"It took him awhile, but Data finally got ACCUSTOMED to his nipple/breast piercings. They were constantly rubbing up against his shirt and his heart-shaped locket. Picture Data, shirtless, squeezing his nipples in front of Picard and saying ""Yes, at first they were a bit shelly, but I've grown quite ACCUSTOMED to them"". That last bit should do it for you."	14	627	22		Some hardcore monks have a state of mind that has become accustomed to their self-torture through piercing themselves.	
愉	pleasure	"At the meeting of butchers, in their narrow state of mind, they throw lame jokes around like, 'Oh hello, it's a pleasure to meat you', and find this rather pleasing."	12	628	22		"Image : Data attending a meeting of the butchers union. As a joke to begin his speech he says, 'Its a pleasure to MEAT you all.' (thanx to Shibo & nestOr)."	
慎	humility	Humility is the state of mind of accepting the truth about yourself - both favorable and unfavorable. (tweaked version of Raichu's).	13	630	22		Humility is a state of mind when you consider yourself in accordance with the truth (you neither boast nor demean yourself).	
憶	recollection	Recollection is about bringing ideas back to your mind.	16	632	22		Data's recollection powers are unparalled. He never loses a single idea.	
添	annexed	"Hawaii is a little drop of heaven nestled in the waters of the Pacific, most often visited by honeymooners and valentines. It was annexed to the U.S.A. in 1959, and more recently to Japan as well-- albeit only unofficially, and through private commercial holdings."	11	634	22		"Annexed to the U.S.A. in 1898, Hawaii is nestled in the waters of the Pacific, a little drop of heaven, often visited on Valentines.. (from Ihatobu with the date corrected. Hawaii became a state in 1959)...　RTK2:　テン　添付　てんぷ(appendix)."	
泌	ooze	Anything full of water will invariably begin to ooze.	8	636	22		"When you pierce a heart with a stake, it invariably oozes blood."	
手	hand	"This pictograph actually really works if you look at it as a hand with fingers spread and middle finger pointing down. see the very top stroke as the edge of a shirt cuff, and it will all come together."	4	637	23		A hand is useful for 千一(1001) things.	
摩	chafe	"If you grind the hemp without a stone but use your hand instead it will chafe. (Image: ""Robin, why are your hands all chafed?"" 'Uh... (I've been grinding hemp all day)')."	15	639	23		"When the feds came to bust your little hemp grove, you jumped out the back side of the cave and tried to repel down with a hemp rope. Unfortunately, the rope chafed your hands and you fell .. ouch!"	
義	righteousness	"Righteous Christians are sheep with egos (reworked from raulir, fixes word order to match radical order)."	13	641	23		"On the other hand, Woman tend to have too much self-righteousness to allow any man to touch their wooly black sheep this results in similar hand fiestas."	
犠	sacrifice	A cow that is righteous sacrifices her milk for the human race.	17	643	23		"Cows are truly righteous animals. They SACRIFICE their milk so that we can have some. And if they don't have any left, they give a sheep a hand fiesta (good lord this is going too far) and give us that instead. What righteous cows."	
抱	embrace	"When embracing someone, wrap your fingers around her butt for added effect. You may think of ""bound with snakes"" as a description of the fingers slithering around the buttocks, if you want a particularly graphic image."	8	645	23		"Here, I'm picturing that scene from ET (the extra terrestrial), where ET hugs Elliot before leaving. You see that EMBRACE is ET's long FINGERS that WRAP around Elliot."	
搭	board	"Ok, this is a little wierd, but i took this back to the kanji for pagoda (#254). I think it helps simplify the image, and also helps anchor the pagoda kanji in memory better as an added bonus. say this aloud once, and i think it will bring out a vivid image very quickly: ""Now boarding the pagoda ride. Please keep your fingers inside at all times...""."	12	646	23		When you board the ship on the way out from Hawaii a beautiful crewmember takes her fingers and fits a lei around you ....a lei is flowers fitted together with your fingers.	
抗	confront	"Gandalf confronts the evil beast, shouting ""you shall not pass!"". He holds up a single finger and sends forth a whirlwind."	7	648	23		Imagine a thumb war. A confrontation of fingers in a whirlwind.	
招	beckon	"A Geisha beckons you with her index finger, and as you approach she runs her fingers all over her body in an attempt to seduce you. Keyword meaning : “invite”."	8	650	23		"I bet you all know the Maneki Neko, or beckoning cat, who with its raised fingers tries to seduce all good things (success, happiness and harmony) to its owner."	
拍	clap	"(Image: the most snooty prim and proper English Lord with white gloves clapping only with his fingers. ""Oh bravo old chap. Bravo..."")."	8	652	23		"I clapped so hard, my fingers became white."	
打	strike	"You're using a hammer to drive a nail into a plank, but you miss and strike your fingers, ouch ! PS: the character does not mean ""to go on strike"", it will be very helpful in the long run to create images that convey the proper sense of the character!"	5	653	23		My teacher used to strike my fingers with a street sign.	
捨	discard	Someone stuck their fingers in my cottage cheese! I'm going to have to discard the lot!	11	655	23		"The wicked witch from Hansel and Gretel only likes the meaty parts of kids. Outside her candy cottage, you can see a pile of discarded fingers."	
摘	pinch	"My grandma always pinched me with her fingers when i was playing with her antiques. Imagine her fingers, also quite antique, thin, bony and hard, pinching at your hand. ""Keep your fingers away from my antiques!!""."	14	657	23		>_< Don't you hate when your aunt (who is an antique) PINCHES your cheeks with her antique fingers?	
指	finger	Finger lickin' delicious.	9	659	23		"I remember this not as finger which has too many uses elsewhere but as ""fingering"" then its easy: fingering some delicious..."	
持	hold	"At the BUDDHIST TEMPLE you'll see wonderous things, such as the priest that can HOLD himself upside down with just a FINGER."	9	660	23		"In Kyaiktiyo, there is rocking stone which sits on the edge of a cliff, and there is a Buddhist temple built on the top of it. You can rock the stone by pushing it with your finger, but it still holds in place. It's true, see here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kyaiktiyo."	
揮	brandish	"A military leader in his chariot is brandishing his finger at the enemy, crying ""chaaaaaaaaarrrgggeeee!""."	12	662	23		"Think of the movie Gladiator but instead Maximus is brandishing a giant foam brand name (nike, rebok, adidas, whatever) finger like you see at a baseball game. He's riding in a chariot using the foam finger to kill his enemy."	
揚	hoist	My piggy bank is so heavy that I cannot HOIST it using just my fingers.	12	664	23		"Picture a major robbery where some dudes are breaking into a bank to steal their money. They get their man in the vault through the ceiling - now he's hanging from a rope a few feet from the ground (like in the movies, dodging laser beams). He reports back that he has found the loot, and its all in a large piggy bank in the center of the vault. The alarm sounds and he's got to think fast. He jams the four fingers of his right hand in the piggy bank slot and tells his team to hoist him up, he's got the loot!"	
損	damage	"Boss yells, ""Who damaged the Xerox machine?!"" fingers of employees point at one another."	13	666	23		"If you finger your employee, you risk incurring many damages from a possible sexual harassment lawsuit."	
担	shouldering	"One of Hercules' labors was to hold the world in his fingers for Atlas and not move until nightbreak, shouldering the considerable burden."	8	668	23		One of the classic stories of shouldering a heavy burden is that of the kid who had to stick his finger on a dam until nightbreak to prevent it from breaking down.	
拠	foothold	"When rockclimbing, when your weight disposes of the valuble foothold, all that's left is your fingers keeping you from death. Meanwhile, your walking legs are left dangling in the wind."	8	669	23		"Once you have a good foothold, you can dispose of your fingerhold."	
操	maneuver	"Tip: goods + wood/tree : This combination of primitives appears four times in Heisig, so it's worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""furniture"" (a common type of wooden goods). REF: parch (#215) , maneuver (FRAME 671), winding (#1369), seaweed (#2035). Story: Using just a finger you are trying to maneuver your furniture round your room."	16	671	23		Luke skywalker points his fingers and uses the force to maneuver the goods through the tree branches and up over the tree.	
掲	put up a notice	"A muchacho puts up a notice that says “NO FINGER SNAPPING ALLOWED. MUCHACHOS ON SIESTA”. The muchachos are sleeping soundly, completely oblivious to the sound of dogs barking, guitar playing and even gun shots. Now imagine one tourist passing by and snapping his fingers and waking up all the muchachos at once."	11	673	23		"Just as I was finished putting up a ""no siestas"" notice on my property, a muchacho gave me the finger, sat down, and promptly fell asleep."	
研	polish	My stones are so huge that it takes two hands to polish them!	9	675	23		You use two hands to polish a stone: one to hold it and the other to rub it.	
戒	commandment	"Two hands, fiesta.....when moses received the ten commandments with two hands, he went back down the mountain and threw a fiesta with the jews, celebrating the arrival of the commandments."	7	676	23		"When Moses returned with the commandments in his hands he saw that his people were throwing a fiesta. At first he was excited. Then he looked around and got pissed. ""Awww, c'mon guys. Golden idols? Really?""."	
鼻	nose	An Egyptian embalmer reaching both hands into the dead pharaoh's nose and yanking out handfuls of brain.	14	678	23		I sneezed so hard that through my NOSE I blew out my BRAINS into BOTH HANDS.	
型	mould	"A famous ninja once pressed his two hands and saber into the soil of his temple, before going onto a mission from which he never came back. Think of some sort of signature that he left behind him. The mould of his two hands and saber has since become a popular attraction in the area."	9	680	23		As a PUNISHMENT they made me lay face down in the DIRT leaving a nice imprinted MOULD of my whole BODY.	
財	property	"If you're a money genius, you can afford a lot of property."	10	682	23		"The keyword refers to property in the sense of money or funds rather than of buildings or real estate. Keep this one distinct from frame 193 (“wealth”) and frame 473 (“assets”). Here we have a genie, gulping down oysters. Someone tries to grab an oyster and the genie puts his big arms around his oysters and states his “right of ownership” : “They're mines, my property!”."	
存	suppose	"How do you suppose they manage to cram a genie inside a bottle? Well, I suppose they put him in there while he's still a little child..."	6	684	23		"Villagers on a little remote island one day find a bottle washed out by the sea onto the beach. After wiping the bottle and taking a closer look, they are amazed to see a (very small) child in it. The villagers suppose that the child is a genie in a bottle."	
在	exist	Genie in the bottle does exist but you need to dig deep into the soil to find one.	6	685	23		"You wipe the soil from the bottle, only to have a genie float out above you, saying: 'I am the genie in a bottle, what is your wish?' So now you know that they do exist."	
携	portable	"This character is the ""kei"" in ""keitai"" (cell phone), a word you will no doubt hear often in Japan, since everyone has one. Imagine you've just arrived in Japan, but don't have a cell phone yet, so instead you're carrying around a portable turkey you can hold in your fist. To dial a number, just poke it with your fingers."	13	687	23		"Because they have no fingers, turkeys must use their fists when dialing on a portable phone."	
吸	suck	"Imagine a baby reaching out and holding mom's breast as if it were bottle, and sucking on it to get some milk."	6	689	23		An open mouth and reaching hands : a baby wants to suck at his mother's breast.	
丈	length	Both a meter and a yard are about one arm-length.	3	691	23		"This kanji reminds me of the kanji for big (I think it looks the same kinda of except for the last stroke). Maybe this works for guys, but when you were growing up you would compare ""length"" with your friends trying to show how BIG you were. You wouldn't show ""it"" but you would spread your arms out as wide as possible to exaggerate your length. Maybe even so wide that you trip (I the 3rd stroke getting pushed over)! I just find it easier to relate this to the previous kanji."	
吏	officer	One officer can change the course of history.	6	693	23		"One officer, namely Napoleon, changed the course of history. (Thanks, ayoung24). Napoleon is also my primitive meaning."	
硬	stiff	A stiff drink on the ROCKs after it GROWS LATE is a way to unwind after a long day...	12	695	23		"Stones are so stiff that even if you spent all day straining trying to change their shape, it would grow late far before you ever accomplished your task."	
又	or again	"After her boyfriend's crotch has been satisfied, a woman might suggest they cuddle. The boyfriend, on the other hand, might say, ""Or again, we could fool around . . . ""."	2	696	23		"This keyword should really be ""again"" not ""or again"" Here is some context: think of the phrase ""Jya mata"" ""じゃ又"" which is a farewell similar to ""then again"". Also ""Mata ne"" ""又ね"" and mata ashita (again tomorrow) ""又明日""。 Note this kanji is rarely used, most of the time JP people spell it out ""mata"" except for in the last example: 又明日."	
桑	mulberry	"Children going around the mulberry tree singing ""This is the way we wash our crotch, wash our crotch, wash our crotch...""."	10	698	23		"Imagine kids all over the top of a mulberry tree, sitting astride limbs so that their weight is on their crotches. (Mulberry trees have big sprawling limbs that run horizontally or at shallow angles making them easy to climb and sit in. I have an old mulberry in my yard, and my kids are in it constantly)."	
護	safeguard	"Think of the flower-vessels as a the Greenpeace vessel “Arctic Sunrise”, only instead of a rainbow there is a big flower painted on the hull (this will come back in seize (#701) and harvest (#908)). Think of “flower-power” and of the “peace” in “Greenpeace” and it will make some sense hopefully. -- In this kanji, we see an inauguration speech being given before the Greenpeace vessel is set afloat and sent to safeguard our planet."	20	700	23		"(With sarcasm) A Bush speech telling how all the US vessels are always welcomed, covered with flowers and words of gratitude for safeguarding democracy from the evil doers."	
奴	guy	"That GUY stole my WOMAN so I kicked him in the CROTCH. (This story helps keep the word ""GUY"" as someone you hold in contempt)."	5	702	23		Guys only care about 2 things: women and their crotch (preferably at the same time).	
怒	angry	This woman is angry because of the guys in the previous frame who pay more attention to her crotch than her heart. I prefer to decompose the kanji in three elements here because it is easier to read like a mnemonic.	9	703	23		WOMEN get very ANGRY over the thought that GUYS are more interested in her CROTCH than her HEART.	
抜	slip out	Don't let good friends slip out between your fingers.	7	705	23		"Imagine a cliché Hollywood situation: one person is lying on the edge of the abyss and another (presumably his friend) is hanging, only thing holding him is the grip of their hands. Then fingers slip out of the grip and he falls in said abyss."	
没	drown	(Note: this kanji is more collapse/cave-in/sink (#1888) than humans drowning) A water missile? A torpedo! And when it hits it's target? The ship collapses then sinks and everyone drowns!	7	707	23		"The submarine's hull was breached after being struck by a torpedo (""water missile""), causing the entire crew to drown."	
撃	beat	"Your car has missles?! That beats mine, hands down."	15	709	23		Think 3 methods of attack all combined into 1 kanji: 1. Vehicle to transport troops 2. Once troops have disembarked they have their missiles 3. If they run out of missiles they resort to hand to hand combat to beat the enemy.	
殻	husk	Samurai's husk/shell/armour is superflous to missile attacks 甲殻　卵殻　貝殻.	11	710	23		husk or shell. Japan's recent history in a nutshell: first the samurai became superfluous and then the Americans started to throw missiles and bombs during WWII.	
技	skill	"(Adapted from darg_sama's) Balancing a branch on your finger is the prototypical example of a skill that is nothing more than a skill (i.e., it is completely useless)."	7	712	23		"I think of a guy balancing a branch on his finger, which definitely takes some minimal amount of skill."	
肢	limb	"The limbs that this kanji represents are parts of the body that are connected to the trunk, like the main branches to a tree (“arms and legs” is the second meaning of this kanji). In other words, limbs are ""flesh branches""."	8	714	23		Limbs are body parts that branch off.	
怪	suspicious	"When you're suspicious, your state of mind twists round and round like a spool of thread."	8	716	23		Imagine a loud farting sound on The Enterprise (sorry). Everyone looks around trying to find who did it. The one looking most suspicious is Data. His soiled crotch gives him away.	
軽	lightly	"Fact: this kanji is used to denote a certain class of vehicles in Japan whose engines are under a certain size (less than 750cc I think) and are called light vehicles here. Imagine a so-called light vehicle or a light-truck with a load of spools driving down a road ever so lightly, careful not to let any of the spools roll out onto the street."	12	717	23		"I want to tread lightly on the environment.... That's why I CAR-SPOOL to work everyday.... I know, lame."	
督	coach	Creepy uncle volunteers as gymnastics coach so he can eye the team from below.	13	719	23		"Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let's make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team. You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when COACHing..."	
淑	graceful	"Uncle (the one who is lonely and coaches kids in his spare time) is actually a graceful guy once he hits the water, as he used to be part of the swimming team in his youth."	11	721	23		"Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let's make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team. You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when coaching..."	
坂	slope	"As the villain (pushed off by the anti-hero) is tumbling down the slope, he activates gadget skis to escape, spraying soil everywhere as he flies down the slope."	7	723	23		"This kanji depicts a classic enviornmental problem: erosion. Erosion occurs when all of the soil washes of the side of the cliff, eventually causing the cliff to disappear, leaving a slope (an anti- cliff if you will) in its place."	
板	plank	"Of course, trees are anti-plank. Wouldn't you be if you were a tree?"	8	724	23		"Trees are naturally opposed to, or anti, the making of planks."	
販	marketing	The goal of marketing is to get people who are naturally anti-buying to spend their shells (money).	11	726	23		"『MARKETING: MONEY, ANTI』 The wide presence of MARKETING in our society has led people to become ANTI-MONEY."	
妥	gentle	Overly gentle women are vultures who want to marry you and steal your money - not true but an easy mnemonic!	7	728	23		An eagle must be extra gentle to pick up a dainty woman in its sharp claws.	
浮	floating	Floating rubber ducky!!!	10	730	23		"A nest of fledglings somehow fell into the water (maybe it was perched on a tree bending over the river), but they are safe for now as the nest is floating. The fledglings are enjoying the cruise but they are soon coming to a great waterfall... ( a little drama to help us remember the story)."	
将	leader	"The leader in this race is the turtle! It appears he has covered the vulture’s feet in glue, so that the vulture cannot get off the starting block."	10	731	23		X-men and TMNT join forces: Their new leader is an awsome asshole. He is simply Wolverine and Raphael glued together back to back (the biggest assholes from both groups combined).	
採	pick	"You pick cheries with your fingers, then along comes a giant vulture and picks up the whole tree with its claws."	11	733	23		"Tip: vulture + tree : Heisig later combines these into a single kanji 采 called grab (#2090). Story: As you go to pick your nose, your parent grabs your finger and pulls it away (& gives you a lecture on social etiquette). REF: ""grab"" also appears in vegetable (#734), coloring (#1714)."	
受	accept	The bird house is the brothel (someone else said so) and of course everyone is welcome - thay accept any crotch.	8	735	23		"A birdhouse is a whorehouse that will accept any crotch even those with STDs. (Image: a birdhouse whorehouse with every kind of bird coming and going. Some old madam at the front hole accepts everyone, even the nasty old crows)."	
愛	love	"If you really love someone, you won't keep them in a cage-like bird house relationship, but rather open the door and let their heart walk around freely. Think less about ""I"" (あい) and more about ""we""."	13	737	23		"The man is about to enter the 'birdhouse' (brothel) when he remembers his true love at home, and, following his heart, uses his walking legs to go straight home."	
払	pay	"You're at a restaurant and raise your finger to indicate to the waiter that you want to pay. Your friend elbows you in the ribs -- it's his shout, and he insists on taking care of the bill."	5	738	23		"You are walking out of the restaurant when the waiter uses his FINGERS to grab you at the ELBOW and says, ""excuse me sir, didn't you forget to PAY?""."	
拡	broaden	Japanese girls are tight and may require fingers inserted to broaden them and make them wide enough before you can...	8	740	23		Spread your fingers wide to broaden your hand.	
弁	valve	Opening a stuck valve requires 2 hands and a lot of elbow grease.	5	742	23		"The cubans build a pipe to flood the USA. Castro just has to turn the valve on it, and USA is flooded. Suddenly, CIA agents tackle him from behind, grabbing both his arms. But Castro manages to open the valve with his elbow, by raising the elbow above his head. Success! USA is no more..."	
台	pedestal	When someone's elbow is above your mouth he/she is probably standing on a pedestal.	5	744	23		"After training your whole life, you manage to get a bronze medal in the Olympics. You're extremely proud of your accomplishment as you step up to receive your medal. The guy in first place is up on a pedestal, towering above you, his elbow level with your mouth. Being a smug bastard, he ""accidentally"" knocks his elbow into your mouth, causing you to bleed and lose a tooth. Just cause he won the gold doesn't mean he can place himself on such a high pedestal and do whatever he wants!"	
治	reign	From his water pedestal Neptune reigns over his Sea Empire.	8	746	23		Build a moat around your pedestal to protect your reign of power.	
始	commence	"Many men, before they commence their relationship with the woman of their desires, place her on something of a pedestal, which often leads to disappointment later on."	8	747	23		"If you want to commence a relationship, just put a woman on a pedestal and she'll love ya forever."	
窓	window	"This is either a love scene or a murder scene that you are seeing through a window. The love scene: through the window of a house (from a distance), you see a pair of human legs, then elbows, and then some pink hearts floating up like in a cartoon. The murder scene: peering through the window of a house, you see a gruesome murder scene. Human legs dangling from a ceiling fan, an elbow sticking out of a wall, and a heart still beating on the carpet."	11	749	23		"A photographer is at home, recovering his broken human legs. With nothing better to do, he is looking through the rear window with his camera (he needs to use his elbow to support those heavy lenses) until his heart begins to race as he witnesses a murder!"	
法	method	"This kanji shows up in a lot of words related to the legal process. Try this image: using a very outdated judicial method, the people of Salem dunked accused witches in the water until they were all gone."	8	751	23		"There already was a system (#418) for butchering cows, a technique (#421) for turning smoke into flowers - why can't there be a method of about the same relevance for making water gone? Evaporation anyone?"	
至	climax	Sexual climaxes don't always happen on the bed; they sometimes happen against a wall or on the ground!	6	753	23		The climax of the Berlin Wall affair was the tearing of it to ground.	
室	room	"You book a room in a love hotel called ""Climax House""."	9	754	23		"A simple room is made up of a roof, some walls, and a dirt floor."	
致	doth	To reach climax I doth the bidding of my dominatrix taskmaster.	10	756	23		"This character is used in two very high-frequency words: ""you are welcome"" (どう致しまして) and the honorific form of onegaishimasu (お願い致します; おねがいいたします). Can't you just picture this ridiculously polite S&M picture? A businessman, who DOTH the bidding of his taskmistress, is climaxing and yelling out ""お願い致します"" while she whips and says ""どう致しまして"". (This kanji also means ""to bring about"" and ""do humbly"", which is perfect for this image)."	
棄	abandon	"Think of a really loud and annoying baby, you want to abandon it but it keeps coming back...so you take of your belt by the buckle, and buckle the baby to a tree!"	13	758	23		"As in sash (#415), I treat the one mountain in the middle to mean Mt. Fuji (Japan's ichiban mountain). Now we see an infant being abandoned on top of Mt. Fuji well above the tree line to die of exposure."	
撤	remove	"A terrible yakuza taskmaster is bringing up his infant. Every time the infant does something wrong... well, you know what happens to yakuzas when they do something wrong."	15	760	23		"""Don't lay a finger on him,"" a concerned mother says as the state REMOVES her child away for upbringing by a taskmaster foster home."	
充	allot	"Scene at the baby factory: Manager: ""Good news! Your infant has been allotted human legs"". Parent to be: ""Thanks a lot!""."	6	761	23		"In China, to prevent too many human legs walking around, couples are alloted only one infant…　RTK2:　ジュウ　補充　ほじゅう(supplement)…　Semi-Pure Group:　銃762　(ﾄｳ): 統1347."	
硫	sulfur	"Sulphur is like a rock, but it can stink like a stream of infant doodie."	12	763	23		Infants are baptised in streams inorder to prevent their descent into a place of sulphur and brimstone.	
允	license	"In some Asian kung-fu version of James Bond, the main protagonist has a “License To Kill” with his deadly elbows and human legs. His suit is always stained of red blood at the elbows and lower legs (this to help create an image that distinguish the two elements)."	4	765	23		A midget driver trying to pass the road test to get their driver's license. Their elbows are too short to turn the wheel and their legs are too short to reach the gas and breaks.	
唆	tempt	I named the right part legal prostitute has it represents a walker [walking legs] with the license. It's easy to imagine a legal prostitute tempting a man with her mouth.	10	766	23		Prostitutes in Amsterdam have a license to show off their walking legs and tempt customers with their mouths.	
山	mountain	"Pictograph, see book. * As a primitive this element appears equally as well at the top or bottom of the kanjis (besides appearing to the left). Since a mountain often brings to mind towering peaks, I will consider it implied that the element is placed at the top of the kanji. When this primitive appears at the bottom, I will arrange my story in a way that other elements are said to be at the very top of the mountain (see FRAME 775 for an example)."	3	768	24		YOU CAN'T POSSIBLY NEED A MNEMONIC FOR THIS!!!!	
岩	boulder	A mountain-sized stone is known as a boulder.	8	770	24		"Here we see mountain rocks rolling down the mountain, gathering into a single monstrous boulder crushing everything in its path. Think snowball effect, even if it wouldn't work with rocks."	
岐	branch off	"On the left, there are three mountains. The road branches off to each of them. (Note: This kanji is mostly used for branches in the road)."	7	772	24		"In a lot of Super Nintendo-era RPGs, there are mountain levels to get through. You view them from overhead, so you can see a mazelike path with many branches. Picture your sprite characters at one such fork in the mountain path, as it branches off in two directions."	
峠	mountain peak	"Heisig mentions at kanjiclinic.com that he wishes he'd chosen mountain pass for this keyword as it's closer to what the word means. If we do this, the kanji makes complete sense because a mountain pass is just below the mountain top."	9	773	24		"To the north of Lorien lies the Misty Mountains, and below their towering peaks are the Mines of Moria. The Fellowship of the Ring first tried for the MOUNTAIN PASS that goes above, but were halted by the wizardry of Saruman at Caradhras, and so are forced to take the MOUNTAIN PASS that goes below, through the mountain - a path long feared by Gandalf for the ancient evil that lurks there. Note : the kanji does in fact refer to a ""mountain pass""."	
密	secrecy	"To maintain secrecy, secret societies invariably have to house themselves in the moutains."	11	775	24		"To maintain secrecy, secret societies invariably have to house themselves on top of the moutains. (Slight tweak of chamcham's story, using fuaburisa's idea for remembering where to put the mountain primitive.)."	
嵐	storm	Storm is a full-blown wind that rips the mountains off the ground (you see one flying here).	12	777	24		"Winds are gathering at the base of the mountain (note the hint to primitive placement), going up, and turning into a huge mountain storm."	
入	enter	"Pictograph, see book. * As a primitive, using the image of going through a door, even one that stands alone with the frame and no wall around, helps flesh out the primitive “enter”."	2	779	24		Person enters stage left…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ニュウ　入院　にゅういん(admittance into a hospital).	
込	crowded	During a traffic jam it is impossible to get your car to enter the roadway as it is crowded with cars. Think of a grid lock so bad cars are litterally scraping up against each other like people on a Japanese train during rush hour.	5	780	24		Everybody tries to enter the road during rush hour. That's why it's so crowded.	
貧	poverty	"In the case of true poverty, not having money is only part of the problem. There are other components as well, like lack of education, class structuring, etc., but that doesn't really matter. Just remember that the money is only part of it, not the whole."	11	782	24		Parting with your money will lead to poverty.	
公	public	I always open the doors to the public restrooms with my elbows because I don't want to touch the door with my hands.	4	784	24		I always enter the doors to the public restrooms with my elbows because I don't want to touch the door with my hands.	
翁	venerable old man	"The venerable old man is the public figure head of the Native American Village, answering all questions and solving all problems. The higher in rank you get in this tribe, the more feathers decorate you. Imagine this old man covered in beautiful feathers."	10	786	24		"The venerable old man is using the public restroom in the park where he feeds the pigeons. But, alas, there is no toilet paper! So, he's caught a pigeon and is using it to wipe his bottom. (note the feathers on the bottom of the kanji, this helps remember placement). Can you see the feathers flying everywhere?"	
訟	sue	Take care what words you say in public lest you be sued.	11	787	24		"[+radical_tyro] Socrates was giving a speech in public. Things were going rather well, until his robe opened a bit and people saw his, well, not-public area. He was promptly sued for public indecency. Certain things shouldn't be made public in public, you know?"	
浴	bathe	"This story is quite lascivious, sorry... Now, imagine you are at a 混浴　（こんよく） [two kanjis we now know] Onsen (温泉), and you are watching a woman bathe. Just picture the water dripping down her cleavage (that valley in between her breasts). Note: cleavage in Japanese is 谷間."	10	789	24		The mountain man uses the water from the valley to bathe.	
溶	melt	Think of what happens when the snow on top of the mountains melts: it turns into water and flows down onto the rooftops of all the houses in the valley below.	13	791	24		"[melt; dissolve; thaw] An ice cube is melting, loosing the water it contained."	
裕	abundant	"Again using the fact that cleavage in Japanese is called ""valley of the chest"": a woman with abundant cleavage tightly wraps up her bosom in a form-fitting cloak, but leaving her valley exposed. Another unforgettable image (thank you, thank you, I'll be here all week)."	12	793	24		"Welcome to cloak-valley, the valley where everyone wears cloaks and every shop sells cloaks. Mnemonic : “cloaks are abundant in the valley”."	
鉛	lead (metal)	Picture the molten lead (the heavy metal) being discreetly drained out of the factory into a gully behind.	13	794	24		Lead -> Dental fillings -> Metal that enters the mouth to fill a hole in a tooth.	
賞	prize	"This is a bit silly.. or maybe not only a bit, but.. You know some foodstuffs (cereals come to mind) sometimes have prizes mixed in them? Well, in this case, the prize was a shell (money, remember) and you only notice in the outhouse... (see also secret (#904))."	15	796	25		"As a prize for being the 1,000,000th person to use the restaurant's outhouse, I got all the clams I could eat."	
堂	public chamber	In most communities you will be hauled into city hall if you use the ground as an outhouse.	11	798	25		There is a secret hall buried in the soil underneath the outhouse.	
常	usual	It's usual to take your towel with your when you go to the outhouse at the onsen (hot springs bath in Japan) so everybody doesn't see your stuff.	11	799	25		"In the outhouse toilet you'd usually hope to find toilet paper to wipe your ass. If it's already gone, which is usually the case, simply use the towel."	
掌	manipulate	"If you're going to manipulate your body with your hand, then go do it in an outhouse, at least!"	12	801	25		"Instead of magazines, we keep a Rubiks Cube in the outhouse to manipulate with your hands while you do your business."	
波	waves	Waves are the ocean's pelt (skin).	8	803	25		"The Inuit used water-proof seal pelts for their kayaks, to travel the waves."	
婆	old woman	"An old woman is seen here as a woman with waves (i.e. wrinkles, creases)."	11	804	25		"You know ""The Old Man and the Sea."" Well, this is the sequel, ""The Old Woman and the Sea Waves.""."	
破	rend	"Before the invention of scissors or knives, sharp STONES were used to REND PELTs, so that caveman designers could complete new styles for the upcoming year."	10	806	25		"Rend is a violent, primitive kind of word. (Image: cavemen rending pelts right off live animals with stone tools)."	
残	remainder	"The remainder of the bones have been thrown from the float (for the dogs maybe, at the end of the parade)."	10	808	25		Throwing all those coins (see coin (#368)) was a really bad idea; people got mad with greed. The only remainders left were the bones of those that was on the float.	
殊	particularly	A t-bone steak is vermilion - particularly if served rare.	10	810	25		Castlevania -- The vermillion skeletons (bones) are particularly hard because they just keep regenerating.	
殖	augment	Advertisement for Breast Implants -- Tired of nights all alone? Want to get boned straightaway? AUGMENT your breasts and all your troubles will be solved!	12	811	25		"In the movie “Gattaca”, Vincent Freeman (played by Ethan Hawke) augments his size by straightening his bones (his legs), in order to match up with the genetically “perfect” population, and reach his goal of travelling in space. The stretching of his lower leg bones involved multiplying the bone cells, another sense of this key word."	
裂	split	"They tried issuing the skeleton warriors with proper garments to wear, but they kept getting split by the sharp bones or by their sabres. In the end, it was decided they look scarier naked anyway."	12	813	25		Someone takes a sword made of bone to split the garment right down the middle. Very effective.	
死	death	"Ok, this is where knowing some Eastern culture comes in handy! In Japanese society, when someone dies they creamate the body and pick out the remaining bones with special chopsticks. In this case, they're out of chopsticks so they decide to use (gasp!) a spoon instead."	6	815	25		"Imagine the grim reaper (the bringer of death), carrying a spoon made of human bones instead of a scythe."	
葬	interment	"I imagine an interment as a funeral. At this funeral it's an open casket, and the dead body (death) is holding flowers with both of its hands."	12	816	25		"During the interment ceremony, the grandchildren placed flowers over the dead body while the widow sat praying with two hands."	
耳	ear	"Your ear is like the eye on the side of your head for seeing things, but there is hair around it that creates jagged lines."	6	818	25		"Pictograph, see book. * The primitive meaning can easily be extended to ear plugs."	
趣	gist	The gist of it is this: We take the money and run!	15	820	25		"Pickpocket advice: It's simple, FIRST run, then take. Yeah, that's the gist of it!"	
撮	snapshot	Take the utmost care that you don't have your finger in the way when you take a snapshot.	15	822	25		"When I learned photography from my dad as a little girl, he explained the basics to me: ""when you take a snapshot, be careful not to put your fingers before the lens, and don't look towards the sun (this was in the days that photographs would be spoiled by direct sunlight)."	
恥	shame	Amelia Ear-Heart (sic) brought shame to those who said women couldn't fly.	10	823	25		Vincent Van Gogh's greatest shame was cutting off his ear to win the heart of a woman.	
聖	holy	"The trick for me is to remember that the 耳 is to the left of the 口. However, this is easy because a true holy man uses his ear to listen (i.e., to God or his supplicant) before he opens his mouth to speak, unlike a charlatan who just makes something up. Of course, kings are often true holy men and prophets (e.g., King David in the bible)."	13	825	25		"A holy man hears with his ears before he speaks with his mouth, which places him higher than a king in people's esteem."	
聴	listen	"I promise to use my ear to do nothing but listen ... stick a needle in my eye, cross my heart and hope to die! (Intentionally said backwards to get the order of the primitives correct)."	17	827	25		"Listening to others is different from hearing [1626] with the ear. One must allow the words to pierce through the eyes (the window of the soul) and reach deep into the heart...a symbol of thinking about and contemplating on what was said, not just the sounds of words spoken. A married man while reading his newspaper, his wife going on about something suddenly, says, ""You're not listening to me, are you?"" He replies, ""I heard every word you said. You said..."" “Yes, but you're not listening.""."	
懐	pocket	"(re: taijuando) When you are in New York City you have to be alert, i.e. in the ""New York State of Mind"": you need ten eyes to make sure no one will go through your garments and pick your pockets."	16	828	25		"Imagine Darth Vader's state of mind when he discovers his garment has not pockets. "" D O NOT WANT!""."	
漫	loose	"One obscure Tibetan sect-- the Otaku cult-- has an unusually loose interpretation of mandala drawing practice. Instead of traditional mandalas they draw mangas (漫画). They then pour water on the image to wash it away, and begin anew."	14	830	25		Even NELSON MANDALA dreams of drops of WATER glistening on comic book/ anime girls with LOOSE morals. (This story has been edited in response reports).	
置	placement	"On the JET Programme, many people have their eye on a placement in Tokyo, Osaka or another big city, and write it on their application form. They are usually sent to the countryside straightaway."	13	832	25		Working in retail you learn the placement of any item should be at eye level so it's seen straightaway.	
寧	rather	"A pretty tough kanji. Think of elegant old housewives with English accents dining together at a HOUSE party. The hostess brings out a dish of hors d'oeuvres: a SPIKE of metal with an EYEBALL and a HEART skewered on it. Upon being offered this treat, one of the housewives says in her English accent, ""I'd RATHER not.""."	14	834	25		Rather a house with a heart than an eye with a spike.	
濁	voiced	"The fly is wrapped in a spiderweb voicing ""Help me, Help Me"" under the watchful eye of the spider who's venom is dripping like water from her fangs."	16	835	25		Pour water over the eyes of a bound up insect if you want to hear a pitiful buzz that is very similar to a VOICED consanant.	
還	send back	"You've probably guessed it by now, this is the road that Sam and Frodo take to send back the ring to Mount Doom! (see previous frame, the jewel is replaced by the road)."	16	837	25		"Continued from ring (#836)....... So I'm on the road going to send back the ring minus the jewel, the hit to the floor knocked it out."	
扶	aid	Using his finger the husband sometimes is an erotic aid to his partner.	7	839	25		"In Homer Simpsons' house, the first aid kit is usually used for when he smashes his fingers trying to build something (there are countless Simpsons episodes you can draw from for this)."	
規	standard	"In the male-dominated world of yesterday, the husband's way of seeing things was considered the standard point of view. Women who dared to disagree were frowned upon."	11	841	25		"Unfortunately, Homer Simpson is the standard model of a husband in American society. (Placement: You have to look in the RIGHT places to find one that doesn't fit that mold.)."	
替	exchange	"A show like ""Trading Spouses"" called ""exchanging husbands"" where 2 husbands are exchanged for a day (thanks dingomick)."	12	842	25		Marge's dream: to exchange Homer for another husband for just one day.	
潜	submerge	When a submarine or similar vessel SUBMERGES an EXCHANGE of air for WATER takes place in special compartments.	15	844	25		"The two husbands exchange for a day on the reality TV show (see exchange (#842)) finally goes underway. One of the two husband's first job is to fix the water faucet in his new family's apartment. Unfortunately, he isn't very good at fixing things and after a few failed attempts the entire apartment is submerged in water."	
鉄	iron	Iron is a metal that gradually becomes lost due to oxidation and rust.	13	846	25		"Compare with pig-iron (#270). In moving from pig-iron to iron, some of the metal's maleability is LOST. (The only difference between the two kanji is that IRON has knee-less, unbending legs, while PIG-IRON (270) has very supple, bendable legs.)."	
迭	alternate	"When you get lost, you just take an alternate road to get back on track."	8	847	25		"When you lose your way, you can always try to tell the wife that you merely took an alternate road. To save time you know. I'm not LOST, I'm just taking an alternate road. Ahem."	
姫	princess	Princess Leia becomes Jabba's slave (“princess Leia is a woman slave”).	10	849	25		Cinderella: A woman who was a slave who became a princess.	
臓	entrails	"You signed your organ donor card, right? So, when you die, your entrails and other body parts will be placed in a storehouse."	19	851	25		"Again with the Pyramids, each Pharaoh had their entrails taken out and put into little jars that were shaped in the forms of their Gods and entombed along with the preserved body. So, the entrails are the parts of the body that are placed in the storehouse along with the Pharaoh! Damnit, why can't they always be this easy? :(."	
堅	strict	"The strict parent thinks adolescent kids are ""slaves to their crotch"" (= can't control their hormones), so he grounds them. Permanently!"	12	853	25		I'm very strict about not just sleeping with anyone. People who are slaves to their crotches often end up with dirty genitalia and I don't want to get their VD. (on yomi=ケン).	
臨	look to	"The slave is look to the future, ""One day"" he thinks ""I will be able to recline with all my goods, a tv, stereo and washing machine, and when that day comes I shall be truly happy"" he sighs."	18	854	25		"Imagine a slave(or in this case, a female porn star) looking to her new gangbang film where she reclines and gets all 3 holes filled at the same...........OK. Very vulgar, but I was inspired by raulir's clever use of ""3 holes""........."	
巨	gigantic	"This is actually the top view of a porn star with a gigantic erect penis. The top and bottom are his arms and the middle is his penis. Imagine him making the pumping motion while he's banging some chick. The arms move in, the penis moves out and vice versa."	5	856	25		"The letter E, with a GIGANTIC middle stroke."	
拒	repel	Having gigantic fingers is useful to repel insects. You can swat them away a lot easier!	8	857	25		"A woman might be REPELLED by a porn star's GIGANTIC penis, so he kindly offers to use his FINGERS instead."	
男	male	"Male is seen here as muscles working in the field, in other words working in the rice fields is the work of the male who are usually stronger. This is more or less the meaning of the original Chinese character."	7	859	25		"When it comes to choosing a MAN, I prefer brains over muscles."	
募	recruit	The necromancer hangs out at the local graveyard and uses his dark powers to recruit an army of undead. Emphasize the verb form to keep distinct from the noun cadet (#1173).	12	861	25		WANTED: Hardworking GRAVEYARD diggers. Must have 6 months experience with POWERFUL muscles as will be working in South Africa burying deceased elephants.	
功	achievement	"The great achievements of humankind, were crafts completed by muscle power: the pyramids, the Eiffel tower, etc."	5	863	25		All of Arnold Schwarzenegger's achievements started with him crafting his muscles.	
勧	persuade	"Mnemonic ""pegasus persuasion power"". I think of the hippogriff from Harry Potter as being like a pegasus. To befriend a hippogriff, you have to persuade it you mean no harm, you can do this if you have ""pegasus persuasion power""."	13	864	25		It would take a powerful argument to persuade me Pegasus was real… RTK2:　カン　勧奨　かんしょう(encouragement)… 　　　　　　　　Semi-Pure Group:　歓570　観572 　(ｹﾝ): 権571.	
励	encourage	"10,000 Persians are at the base of the cliff, but the leader of the 300 Spartans just flexes his huge muscles and encourages his men by shouting that they have the power to fight them all."	7	866	25		"People encourage you, giving you the power so you can dive off the 10,000m high cliff into the sea."	
賀	congratulations	"When someone at work gets married, you pass around an envelope to which you add some money and a card which you sign with your congratulations."	12	868	25		Congratulations are so much better when you add money to them.	
架	erect	Instant wood. Just add Viagra.	9	869	25		I'm not sure I know about erector sets or tinker toys but I do know about jenga. You play by taking wooden pieces from the middle of a wooden tower and adding them to the top. In this way you erect a very unstable structure.	
脅	threaten	"Compare the primitive positions of armpit (#870) and threaten (#871). When your triceps rest alongside your body, they fit snugly against your armpit. When you hold them above your body, however, your posture becomes quite threatening."	10	871	25		Don't threaten a warewolf. He's three times as powerful ON a full moon.　RTK2:　キョウ　脅迫　きょうはく (blackmail)…　Pure Group:　協872.	
行	going	I use The Flash for for this primitive; a superhero who is always going very fast.	6	873	25		"To me, this looks like a bridge going over a body of water, being supported by columns underneath it. Being that I live near the ocean, I see tourists and vacationers coming and going constantly on the bridge. Because the bridge is so long, it forms an arc to support the structural integrity. You can see that arc here."	
律	rhythm	"The calligrapher's brush is moving down a column of a script, in rhythm with his meditation."	9	874	25		The army COLUMN walked to the RHYTHM made by the drummer using a cool BRUSH like drum stick. Picturing the brush as a drum stick is not difficult if you've seen such a thing in jazz videos.	
得	gain	"To gain more knowledge of what's goin on in the world I'm reading column after column of articles in the newspapers, and it takes so much time I'm glued to it till nightbreak."	11	876	25		Imagine fat people......they avoid going outside to exercise and stay glued to their TV set until nightbreak....so of course they gain weight.	
徒	junior	The junior employee is always RUNNING around GOING here and there for his superiors.	10	878	25		Junior is going to run the family business one day... 　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ト　生徒　せいと(student).	
待	wait	"A line queued up outside the Buddhist temple, waiting to see the shrine on New Year's Day."	9	879	25		The COLUMNS of this TEMPLE are a well-know meeting spot. You can always see someone WAITING there.	
征	subjugate	America seeks to GO and CORRECT other nations. But really what they do is subjugate them...	8	881	25		To subjugate is to have somebody stand still and stiff as a column and behave one hundred percent correctly.	
彼	he	What's the main difference between a he and a she? The he has a column covered in a pelt... a penis. Badum-ching.	8	883	25		"The ultimate he-man is the Neanderthal cave man. His club is as big as a pillar (column), and he wears a ragged pelt as his only clothing. To remember the column, imagine the cave man resting the club vertically like a column when not in use."	
徳	benevolence	Hearkening back to the kanji for LISTEN... Benevolence is a good listener who is willing to go the distance to help.	14	885	25		"In a rare act of benevolence, the Sparten column removes the needle from the cyclops's eye, and he repays them by eating their hearts."	
徹	penetrate	The taskmistress in a moment of weakness allowed the man's column to penetrate her. As punishment he was made to bring up their infant.	15	886	25		"Ha! In this frame, a bunch of taskmasters are lined up to penetrate the kids they raise/bring up! I'm thinking of some priests and choir boys."	
懲	penal	"Penal servitude is served until indications show that one has had a change of heart (learned one's lesson). Easily confused with punish (#679) and penalty (#833). Concentrate on the reasons behind the penal system (""changing people's hearts"" here), instead of the penalty itself or the punishment (revenge) aspect. It may help to note that there's no sword, but a heart :-) (Note: 懲りる = learn from one's bad experiences)."	18	888	25		Judge: You will serve a penal sentence until indications show you have a heart.	
街	boulevard	"The boulevard of boulevards, the Champs Elysées, with the Arc de Triomphe covered in ivy to give the champions a heroes' welcome."	12	890	25		Specifically... ivy boulevard... think hollywood & vine.	
衡	equilibrium	"To maintain the social equilibrium in a future dystopian society, the brains of citizens are bound up (hypnotized). The government is using mental wave emitting statues shaped like St. Bernard's dogs put alongside the boulevards."	16	891	25		"I think BALANCE is an easier keyword. I was walking down a busy French boulevard when between the rushing traffic I saw the wierdest thing. BALANCING on the central crash barrier was a St. Bernard dog, BALANCING a fish on its nose. As I looked closer, I realised it was a trick; it was holding the fish's tail in its teeth, and only pretending to BALANCE it. (keeps the position of the elements!)."	
稼	earnings	"Your earnings allow you to bring home your daily bread (made of wheat, naturally)."	15	893	26		"Hmm, EARNINGS. Think of the popular saying ""Bringing HOME the bacon"". Here, EARNINGS is the picture ""Bringing HOME the bread(WHEAT) and the bacon (PIG)."	
税	tax	"Nobody likes the tax man, so here it is only fitting that the person who comes over to take some of your wheat is depicted here as a devil. Keep in mind that in feudal societies there was no kind of money to speak of, so taxes were paid by serfs in wheat to the devils who came over to keep them poor."	12	895	26		This is an easy one. Taxes is like the devil taking away your hard earned wheat.	
和	harmony	The first step to harmony is having enough wheat to feed every mouth in the world. Once we are all fed it is easier to get a long in harmony.	8	897	26		"People who live in harmony with nature live in the country. they are yokels or hillbillys. See Billy-bob sitting on the porch in their denhim dungarees a sheaf of wheat, sticking from their mouth."	
移	shift	"Picture the WHEAT field, filled with MANY, MANY stalks of WHEAT. Notice how they SHIFT like waves in the slightest breeze. When you hear SHIFT, just picture that scene."	11	898	26		Many people are making the shift from white to whole wheat bread.	
秋	autumn	"In AUTUMN, the WHEAT looks the color of FIRE, meaning it's time to harvest it."	9	900	26		Every autumn the wheat is set on fire to clear the way for next year's crop...	
私	private	"Warning sign: ""Private wheat, trespassers will be elbowed""."	7	902	26		"I already know this as watashi, or ""I"". In order to associate the keyword of private, I'll think of this one as ""Private I"", like a detective."	
秩	regularity	Think of REGULARITY in terms of bowel movements. Enough WHEAT in your diet will help your DROPS with improved REGULARITY.	10	903	26		Eating plenty of wheat will improve regularity and help you lose weight.	
称	appellation	"Taking appellation to mean the act of naming, we have the little baby superman reclining in the space craft that landed in a wheat field. Mr. and Mrs. Kent look down and decide to call him Clark. (I also thought of Jesus but he was born in a barn full of hay not wheat)."	10	905	26		"WHEAT that is RECLINING and LITTLE (small) can't get the APPELLATION ""quality wheat""."	
梨	pear tree	"The Japanese pear tree is the most profitable in the world, because it produces its fruit in pairs [sorry for the awful pun]."	11	907	26		And a profit in a pear tree...12 days of christmas.	
穫	harvest	The harvest of genetically modified crops is taken onboard the Greenpeace vessel (see the flower vessel in safeguard (#700)).	18	908	26		Wheat is harvested; the grain (flower) is put into vessels for shipping.	
稲	rice plant	The rice plant is common in Japan because all the wheat was eaten by vultures in the olden times.	14	910	26		"It used to be that wheat was grown in Japan. However, this was often stolen by vultures, so in olden times, the gods gave the Japanese the rice plant."	
季	seasons	There's a season for planting wheat and there's mating season for having children.	8	912	26		"Look at this adorable child with a bale of wheat on his head! He's playing Autumn in his school play the ""Four Seasons"". Aww...too cute! Perhaps we should light the wheat on fire to complete his Autumn costume. (I know, twisted...but I kept forgetting what was on his head)."	
委	committee	"Female WHEAT farmers decide to create a COMMITTEE, which they fittingly name “The WHEAT WOMEN COMMITTEE.”."	8	913	26		"At committe meetings, Japanese bureaucrats slurp ramen noodles off of naked women."	
透	transparent	"If you excel in the Mario Kart road, your movements are saved and you can race against yourself as a transparent racer. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xe8CkcrL-k4."	10	915	26		"If you want to excel at driving in the roadway, it's better if your windows and windshield are transparent. Picture the drivers with opaque windshields all wrecked on the side of the road."	
穀	cereals	There are different cereals in different parts of the world. Japan has samurai cereal. Great Britain has Crowned Wheat ... the United States and Russia have Missile cereals.	14	917	26		"The samurai crowns wheat as the best cereal, and blows all others up with missiles (he's a cereal killer)."	
菌	germ	Can also mean bacteria.....imagine the wheat pent in your fridge growing to the point where they resemble flowers.......I actually had something similar happen to onions...they grew footlong legs after about 2 or 3 years......OR just think of that Cowboy Bebop episode with the lobster in the fridge... :-).	11	918	26		"Actually it means germs as in microorganisms. So for example, you have to keep wheat enclosed so it isn't exposed to other plants. That way it can't catch any germs (like fungi) from them."	
粉	flour	Parts of parts of parts of parts of rice... is flour. (Image: geishas patting their face with RICE flour to make it white. Not wheat flour...).	10	920	26		"In the United States, part of every meal is made from flour."	
粒	grains	"A sage is using rice to fill up a vase, but as an exercise in patience, he's doing it grain by grain."	11	922	26		There's a contest...whoever guesses the number of grains of rice in a vase wins.	
粧	cosmetics	"Condy Rice is actually white, but she uses special cosmetics made from dirt she found in a cave to appear black - it's better for the political situation."	12	923	26		Modern cosmetics are just the descendants of the old RICE flour and CAVE DIRT ('cause it's darker) used in the past.	
粋	chic	"In extremely chic restaurants, you have to pay 90 bucks for a bowl of rice."	10	925	26		"Americans think that tattoos with Chinese characters are chic, but nine out of ten times they end up with something trivial tattooed on their arm, like rice."	
菊	chrysanthemum	"Chrysanthemum flower consists of many tiny petals, just like many rice grains bound up together."	11	927	26		"[+astgt] Chrysanthemum is a terrorist orginization whose sole objective is to tie up Condi Rice. One day, Condi Rice is standing outside when a group of chrysanthemum agents swoop in from the sides, bound her up with chrysanthemum rope, and dash off. They leave a lone yellow chrysanthemum flower on top of the bound Condi Rice as a sign to let her discoverers know who committed this brave and noble act."	
奥	core	"In the core of a nuclear reactor, scientists have discovered a way to get power from rice, by penting it in under high pressure. It's very dangerous, so they've trained a st. bernard dog to run things, he's adding more drops of rice as necessary."	12	928	26		"奥さん　（おくさん) is a common way to say ""wife"". In the innermost core of the house, the bored pent up housewife drops her chores and consumes so much rice she becomes a very large housewife."	
楼	watchtower	"The young taskmaster (see number (#929)) uses a tree as a watchtower to get a better view of his rice-carrying women. ""I can seeeee you! One! Two! Three!""."	13	930	26		"On the top of the woodmade watchtower we look for our enemies, who will come to steal our rice and our women."	
漆	lacquer	"LACQUER is a type of WATERY type of liquid used to protect items made from TREES, sort of an UMBRELLA of protection. So protective, you can carry around RICE in the LACQUERED, WOODEN product."	14	932	26		Water is falling from a tree onto the umbrella underneath which is protecting the rice underneath it. But it's completely dry since the umbrella is lacquered.	
様	Esq.	"Here we have the requirements to be counted among the ranks of the noble Esq. You must posses a forested estate, herds of sheep, and granary full of grains of rice."	14	933	26		"This is -Sama, a generic high term of respect for someone in an unusual profession. If you met a person that created a wooden sheep that was squeezing a single grain of rice out of its ass, you'd definitely call that person -sama. Because that is impressive."	
球	ball	"Someone files a request to see the family jewels and, to their surprise, you show them your balls!"	11	935	26		The KING REQUESTS your presence at the ball ... game.	
救	salvation	"Like in the biblical sense, someone looks skyward and makes a request for salvation from this horrible taskmaster..."	11	936	26		For salvation you have to request forgiveness from God (the ultimate taskmaster).	
笑	laugh	"When the people tried to build a tower of bamboo to reach the heavens, the gods just laughed and laughed."	10	938	26		That Panda is in bamboo heaven! Just look at him laugh!	
笹	bamboo grass	The bamboo generation smokes bamboo grass.	11	940	26		"“One of the most attractive aspects of bamboo is that it is a renewable resource; it takes less than a year for a stalk to reach maturity, compared to the decades for most trees, whether needle or broadleaf.” -- Mnemonic : ""bamboo grass is the next bamboo generation""."	
筋	muscle	"Muscle is part of the body that gives strength, and can be both supple and tense like the bamboo."	12	941	26		Lifting BAMBOO STICKS is an old way for your BODY to put on lots of MUSCLE.	
筆	writing brush	Bamboo is the best material from which to make a brush if you want it to be a writing brush.	12	943	26		Bamboo would make an excellent writing brush as the ink could flow through the hollow center like an ink pen... 　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ヒツ　鉛筆　えんぴつ(lead pencil).	
等	etc.	"The Bamboo Buddhist Temple has bamboo buddhas, bamboo buildings, bamboo benches, bamboo beds, bamboo bowls, etc. etc. etc."	12	945	26		"""So what'd you see in Japan?"" - ""Bamboo, temples...etc.""."	
答	solution	"The solution to this puzzle is, like the match stick game, to make the bamboo pieces fit together."	12	947	26		For the frustrated housewife the solution came in form of a BAMBOO stick that FITS her well.	
策	scheme	"The temples in kyoto belt bamboo around trees in a scheme to protect them from the huge number of tourists. (true story)-----------対策　　たいさく　　measure, countermeasure."	12	948	26		(Elaboration of jameserb's story:) A clever scheme from Wile E Coyote -- he ties one of those rubber belts to some trees and uses it to launch a bamboo spear at the roadrunner...	
築	fabricate	"Bamboo crafting is a mediocre substitute for wood when you are building or fabricating a house. While it may look good and might attract a chick (ちく) or two, the kids'll (きず) just tear it to pieces as its not sturdy enough."	16	950	26		A bamboo fabrication is a mediocre substitute for wood.	
人	person	"Behold Mister T (of ""A-Team"" fame)! I chose Mr.T because he's sure to make amusing stories. He is a very versatile character since he's both the big, tough guy and the “moralistic” person, telling kids not “to do drugs or alcohol”. He is easy to imagine, the heavy gold chains are probably the most prominent feature of the character. And last but not least you can always pepper your story with the famous line “I pity da foo!” * Fittingly, on the left side of the kanji, it looks like a “T”."	2	951	27		"[I appreciate some people's occasional habit of using P for person in shared stories. That makes it easier to substitute Mr. T, Captain Picard, or whomever else a student is using as person.]."	
但	however	"However drunk Mr T is when he comes back to his place, he always get up at nightbreak. “I pity da foo who gets up after nightbreak !”, says Mr. T."	7	953	27		"MR.T leads a busy life, however he always makes sure to be in bed by NIGHTBREAK, however much he might want to stay up watching A-Team re-runs."	
位	rank	Mr T ranks first position in the stand-up competition (doing knee flexions). Just picture him doing hundreds of these while the rest of the participants are already completely exhausted after a mere hundred.	7	955	27		Rank A person's standing.	
仲	go-between	"When negotiating a hostage situation, Mr. T acted as the go-between, or person in the middle, for law enforcement and the terrorist."	6	956	27		Go-between The person in the middle.	
悠	remote	"Mr. T ventured out into a remote area to visit with his wise, old taskmaster who must use a walking stick to get around and originally gave Mr. T the heart to fight crime for the good of the community."	11	958	27		"Yoda, the Jedi with the walking stick who was a hard taskmaster for Luke but who had a big heart, was permanently exiled on the remote planet Dagobah."	
仕	attend	"Back in the day, a person who stands beside a samurai is usually attending to them or working for them."	5	960	27		"[+fuaburisu] Mr T attends to Tom Cruise in the Last Samurai, who is doing hara-kiri. Imagine Tom Cruise outside in the final scene, stabbing his knife into his stomach, while Mr T looks patiently on. ""I pity da foo....no, really.""."	
他	other	"It's one or the other: fight Mr. T, or be thrown into the scorpion pit."	5	961	27		Old latin saying: homo hominis scorpio (people are scorpions to other people).	
伝	transmit	"Mister T transmits a message with rising clouds (smoke) signals, to a nearby American Indian tribe. The smoke signals spell : ""I p-i-t-y y-o-u f-o-o !""."	6	963	27		"Hanging one-handed under Cloud City, the Jedi-in-training Luke, uses the force to transmit his distress to Leia."	
休	rest	Mr T resting by a tree.	6	965	27		"Chuck norris rests againsts the tree, but wait, no... the tree rests and stands against him."	
仮	provisional	"Mr. T was offered a job in the Iraq Provisional Authority, but he turned it down, because he's anti-war. ""I pity da fool thinks this sand pit worth invadin' when our schools be in such sad shape!""."	6	966	27		"Mr. T is anti anything provisional. ""I pity da foo' who's so indecisive that he can't make nothin' permanent""."	
俗	vulgar	"Mr. T says, ""Don't be like them valley girls, always speaking vulgar language and acting all vulgar! They ain't nothing but foos!""."	9	968	27		"Mr T meets the vulgar (common) people of the valley and participates in the vulgar customs (folkways). Looking at the vulgar (common) people, Mr T says - “I pity you foo!”."	
佳	excellent	"Mr T wants to go to an excellent school, so he enrolls in Harvard, an ivy-league school."	8	970	27		"Bill and Ted are walking through medieval Europe when they see a humongous square jewel. ""Excellent!"" they both yell. But only after grabbing it do they realize it is chained to the neck of Mr. T, who grimaces angrily at them. ""Bogus!"" they cry, and totally run away."	
依	reliant	Mr T is reliant (depends on) on his garment (the gold chains).	8	971	27		Mr. T. is so self-reliant he even makes his own garments.	
個	individual	"This keyword gave me trouble, I could write the kanji from memory but could not remember the keyword the other way around. In such case the dictionary definition can be helpful : ""Middle English, single, indivisible"". Here we have Mr. T. who is so hardened (all the body workout he's had) that he became in-dividual, that is, in-divisible. ""I pity da foo who can be divided into smaller units.""."	10	973	27		"Mr. T insists that people be individual. He appears on television, saying, ""Being an individual is hard! But you gotta do it! Harden yourself, and be individual!""."	
側	side	Mr. T rulezzz! I am on his side!	11	975	27		"Chuck Norris's rules are easy to live by, just be on his side."	
侍	waiter	Mr. T infiltrates the secret samurai Buddhist temple as a waiter with a tray of green tea. (Careful: attend (#960)).	8	976	27		"Remember the kanji for wait, 待. Well, now we have a waiter, and he's dropped a dish. See: 侍! 待 crash 侍."	
値	price	"Mr. T (person) tells the used car salesman to tell him the real price straight away, and when he doesn't he throws him through the windshield."	10	978	27		"Mr. T is shopping for new chains. He knows what he wants and money isn't an issue. ""Cut the jibba-jabba, tell me the price, straightaway!""."	
倒	overthrow	"The A-Team are planning to overthrow the government. However, they can't do a damn thing until Mr T arrives."	10	980	27		"In Return of the Jedi, after a climactic light sabre battle, Luke and Vader overthrow the emporer (literally throwing him over the balcony)."	
偵	spy	"Mr. T is a terrible spy. He walks around upright. ""Why should I hide?! I've got nothing to be ashamed of!""."	11	981	27		"NOTE: The second primitive is upright, not eminent. There is an error in the book."	
億	hundred million	Mr. T has an clear idea of what he would do if he ever got hundred million dollar. (I guess it would be a enormous gold chain !).	15	983	27		"Mr. T's bright idea is to get a hundred million kids to vow not to use drugs. ""C'mon, foo! Sign the paper!""."	
償	reparation	"Mr. T says, ""This ain't no prize, foo! This is reparations for slavery!""."	17	985	27		"NOTE: do not confuse with compensation (#476)賠. However, 賠 is always used in conjunction 賠償... But 償 is used in various other compounds. Mr. T sold all his jewelry to give as reparations to slave families. The governent tried to honor his charity by giving him a prize, but it was a shitty outhouse filled with clams."	
仙	hermit	A HERMIT is a PERSON who lives in the MOUNTAINS.	5	986	27		"After living as an hermit (recluse) for a while in the mountains, Mister T becomes an immortal mountain fairy (""fairy"" is another meaning of this kanji)."	
仁	humanity	The beginning of humanity required at least TWO people. Mr. T and Mrs. T!	4	988	27		Mr. T shows his humanity by giving two bucks to every homeless person he sees.	
使	use	Mr. T uses the officer as a punching bag.	8	990	27		"Of course Mr. T will tell a police officer if he catches someone using drugs, foo!"	
便	convenience	"Mr. T loves the convenience of the new konbini. Not only does it stay open even if it grows late, they have brand new toilets, and a Post Office!"	9	991	27		"Mr. T takes a dump on the floor of a convenience store. Well, it was growing late and he couldn't wait. He pities the fool who will have to clean it up!"	
優	tenderness	"The A-Team is on a mission to help Hamlet. With uncharacteristic tenderness, Mr. T consoles the melancholy Hamlet. ""No, I really DO pity the poor foo. There, there little guy...take my hanky"". (Careful: benevolence (#885)."	17	993	27		Someone can't be melancholy for long if just one person treats them with a little tenderness.	
宿	inn	The Toyoko Inn can house 100 people or 1 Mr. T.	11	995	27		"The inn is like a big house that can addomodate a hundred persons. Only this time, there's just Mister T and he's booked all the rooms!"	
傷	wound	"Mr. T cannot believe the reclining piggy bank won't give up. He has cut off its legs one by one until it cannot stand, yet, despite being rendered almost completely useless it won't surrender. “It's just a flesh wound!” the reclining piggy bank yells."	13	996	27		Mr. T gets wounded by reclining on his piggy bank.	
褒	praise	"Mr. T is praised for his protecting of the trees by being given a top hat and scarf which he wears over his mohawk and chains, respectively."	15	998	27		"An old lady puts a top hat and scarf on her poodle and praises him for how cute he is. The dog thinks, ""Someone protect me from this psycho!""...　RTK2:　ホウ　過褒　かほう(excessive praise)."	
傑	greatness	My wise person says greatness does not come from wearing shades (sunglasses) but from planting trees to shade everyone.	13	999	27		"Mr T stands in front of you, his greatness radiating out from him so brightly. You need to put on your sunglasses and hide behind a tree to even talk to the guy. ""Recognise, foo!""."	
二	two	Two lines.	2	2	1		"Roman numeral II, written on its side."	
四	four	FOUR year-olds often put their FOOT (human legs) in their MOUTH - but they are too young to realize.	5	4	1		"I imagine a giant devouring a human in four bites. First the giant bites off the person's head, then he bites the torso, then from the waist to the knees, and finally the giant plucks up the remaining portion of the human legs into his mouth. See the fourth bite falling in there?"	
五	five	三 + two vertical lines = 5.	4	5	1		"This Kanji looks like a ""3"" Kanji with two added vertical lines. 3+2= 5."	
七	seven	"This kanji is our good old seven, turned upside down."	2	7	1		I wrote it upside down so I crossed it out.	
九	nine	Kinda of looks like the kanji of 1　一 with the kanji of 8 八added. So think of it as 　一＋八＝九.	2	9	1		"Warning - naughty reminder A woman in the doggie style position, waiting for my NINE inches."	
十	ten	"Two needles crossing marks the spot, or you can use the Roman character for ten (rotated 45 degrees)."	2	10	1		I scared away ten vampires with a single cross!	
日	day	"Open the window, new day."	4	12	1		Picture two halves of a 24-hr period: Day & Night.	
田	rice field	A rice field divided into four parts.	5	14	1		Ten people use their mouths to eat the yield of the rice fields.	
目	eye	There are 3 sections. Imagine the outer two being the whites of your eye. The middle is the pupil. Fill it in with imaginary color.	5	15	1		目_目.	
吾	I	I have 5 senses.	7	17	2		I eat five times at day.	
冒	risk	"Don't look at the sun directly with your eyes, it's risky!"	9	18	2		You'll risk your eyesight if you look up at the sun.	
明	bright	The sun makes the moon bright.	8	20	2		"The sun and the moon are brightest objects in the day and night, respectively."	
晶	sparkle	A diamond sparkles as brightly as three suns.	12	22	2		Sparkle is a forest (#197) of suns!	
品	goods	Three boxes of goods are devoured by the hungry mouths of waiting consumers.	9	23	2		Three hungry mouths waiting for the goods to come.	
昌	prosperous	If you work from Sun UP to Sun DOWN you will be prosperous.	8	25	2		"I kept getting this mixed up with meanings like 'fortune', so here is a fool proof story! Remember the Vulcan salute from 'Star Trek' (a fiction of the sci-fi genre in which heavenly bodies such as SUNS play a huge role) used with the phrase 'live long and PROSPER'? If that's not enough of a visual reminder, the Vulcan salute shows the fingers parted in to 2 sets of 2, and visually kind of looks like this kanji if you think about it."	
旭	rising sun	9am carries with it the rising sun.	6	27	2		Nine planets revolve around our rising sun.	
世	generation	3 tens = generation.	5	28	2		"They SAY a generation is ten+ten+ten years, with the big first ten providing a grounding, and the next ten providing a little more grounding for the final ten. But I wish the next generation didn't always SAY ""yo!"". (ON reading is SEI, KUN reading is yo)."	
旦	nightbreak	A nightbreak happens when the sun rises over the horizon (floor).	5	30	2		"It may be easier to think of the keyword ""DAYBREAK"" or ""MORNING"" for this kanji (other kanji dictionaries do). Then the mnemonic phrase ""SUN rising over the HORIZON"" works better. It is an infrequent kanji, but can be found in: 旦夕　（たんせき） morning and evening, or 元旦　（がんたん） New Year's Day."	
亘	span	The sun spans from horizon to horizon in a day.	6	32	2		The span of the day is the time between the sun goes up and comes down.	
凹	concave	"The letter ""U"" is concavely written."	5	33	2		Concave has a concave shape.	
旧	olden times	Age 18 = olden times.	5	35	3		The old man with a walking stick kept talking of olden times all day long.	
白	white	A white ray is a drop of sun.	5	37	3		Even a small drop (') of the sun (日) would make you see nothing but white.	
百	hundred	100 turned sideways. {sort of the same as what ashoksaraf said}.	6	38	3		That dirty ceiling was painted WHITE a hundred times!	
千	thousand	It takes many drops of ten to get to a thousand.	3	40	3		One T = one thousand.	
升	measuring box	It is a thousand or ten? I need my measuring box.	4	42	3		"I can fit a thousand needles into my measuring box, but only if I bend the thousand."	
昇	rise up	"This kanji does not mean ""get up"" or ""awake."" It means rising, like the rising of a salary, or a promotion. STORY: You know that your salary has RISEN UP when your MEASURING BOX has enough dollar bills in it to reach the SUN."	8	43	3		We Measure the Sun to decide when we should Rise Up out of bed.	
寸	measurement	The decimal system uses drops of ten as a measurement.	3	45	3		"Glue two sticks together to make the best measurement. (I always remember the primitive, but never the original keyword.)."	
専	specialty	"After you have chosen your 10 fields of study, measure how good you are at each to find out your specialty."	9	46	3		10 brains glued together allows you to specialize in any specialty that you want. Imagine each brain having its own specialty.	
占	fortune-telling	Fortune-telling: using a mouth as a divining rod.	5	48	3		"A great number of people who do fortune-telling are ""almost old""."	
下	below	Roots are below the ground.	3	50	3		A magic wand hanging below the ceiling.	
卓	eminent	The most eminent magician is he who learned to use his magic wand early in life.	8	51	3		The eminent sunflower is the one that stands above the others.	
只	only	Imagine an animal with only a mouth and legs.	5	53	4		"My girlfriend insists that the only thing I want from her is what's between her legs.. She's drawn me this pictograph to demonstrate. It's a head and two legs spread apart.. I explain that I also love her breasts, and then she smacks me in the face. I'll never understand women.. (I keep failing this kanji, hopefully this silly story will help me!)."	
貞	upright	A magic wand is needed to make a clam stand upright.	9	55	4		Just the thought of my magic wand on her clam makes my magic wand stand upright.	
員	employee	An employee (member of the company) has to clam up his mouth if he wants keep the job!	10	56	4		An employee is basically a shellfish with a mouth.	
児	newborn babe	"In the olden times, a newborn babe came out legs first."	7	58	4		Only 18 and already got a newborn babe. Young girls are so quick to spread their legs these days...　　　RTK2:　ジ　児童　じどう　(child)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　ニ　小児　しょうに(infant).	
頁	page	A shellfish carrying a page balanced on its head.	9	60	4		One drop of ink from a shellfish can fill a whole page.	
頑	stubborn	A stubborn person in the beginning gets something into their head and can't change their mind.	13	61	4		"Picture a STUBBORN schoolboy, with his arms crossed and his book still open to the BEGINNING PAGE. Despite the teacher telling him to turn the page, he refuses and keeps his book on the BEGINNING PAGE."	
負	defeat	"Tied up, the shellfish had to accept defeat!"	9	63	4		Defeat is defined by a shellfish in binds.	
万	ten thousand	I bound ten thousand dollars together and hid it under the floor.	3	64	4		"We have ""one"" at the top and if you turn the kanji 90 degrees you will see arabic 4 shich means it has four zeros in front of it!"	
肌	texture	When you expose your flesh to the wind it gets textured: goosebumps!	6	66	4		The moon's lack of wind preserves its texture.	
勺	ladle	A ladle binds drops together.	3	68	4		Forget about the primative 'bound up'. Imagine instead the shape of a ladle and holding it upside down to drink the last DROP (of water).	
的	bull's eye	I managed to hit the bull's eye by throwing my white ladle.	8	69	4		"A white, bound up, drop in the center is the bull's eye. (why Heisig had to use ""ladle"" instead of the original two primitives that make up ""ladle"" I'll never understand!)."	
乙	fish guts	"This is a fish hook, that pulls out the fishguts."	1	71	5		You cut a fish in a z shape on the belly to make it easier to open the fish and rip out its fish guts silly!	
直	straightaway	"If you get a needle in your eye that is hooked in there, get to a hospital straightaway."	8	73	5		"I caught a freaky creature with ten eyes on my fish hook, so I threw it back straightaway."	
具	tool	Keep an eye on your tools while you work at the table.	8	74	5		"One tool nobody should be without - a Mordor-type eye that floats over the workbench. It jerks around, monitoring all who come near, and if anyone so much as removes a stapler from the bench - ZAP."	
工	craft	I consider craft to be one of the harder primitives to use in stories so I've personified it as Bender the crafty robot from Futurama who was designed to bend I-beams.	3	76	5		I crafty.	
左	left	"The LEFT side of my brain posesses the faculties needed for logical crafts, like engineering."	5	77	5		"The left side of my brain, is for crafts."	
有	possess	"Possessed by the Earth's gravity, the moon stays by its side."	6	79	5		"By my side I POSSESS a moon of flesh, better known as your big ass!"	
賄	bribe	"To bribe someone, money is a necessary possession."	13	80	5		"If you possess enough shellfish, you can bribe anyone."	
項	paragraph	To write a paragraph is the craft of grouping sentences on a page.	12	82	5		"To craft a page well, we need paragraphs."	
刃	blade	The part of a sword where a drop of blood can usually be found is the blade.	3	84	5		A drop of blood on the blade of my sword.	
切	cut	The seven samurai used their swords to cut their opponents.	4	85	5		Seven swords cut better than one.	
昭	shining	Shining is the sun's seduction.	9	87	5		The sun was shining so bright that it seduced Icarus and he flew too close.	
副	vice-	"The wealthy guy with the sword standing next to the king, that's the vice-roy who does all the dirty work."	11	89	5		Vice-president Cheney: a wealthy saber rattler.	
別	separate	I don't know about you but to me this seems like someone's head is about to be separated from his body. You can see he's kneeling and his mouth is wide open gasping for the last breath he will ever take.	7	90	5		A wise old samurai keeps his hostages (with their mouths bound up to keep them quiet) in a separate room from his sabers. Putting them together would be a silly mistake.	
町	village	"Actually this means town, like one that has lots of streets and is surrounded by all the rice fields."	7	92	5		"Getting this one confused with Town is easy, so remember it with this rhyme. ""Pillage the village, for the rice and and the tea."" the street primitive on the right looks like a 't'."	
可	can	"A mouth on the street asking for things: ""Can I get some help?! Can I get directions, Can I have some money? Can you please speak English?!""."	5	93	5		I can eat nails.	
子	child	A child who is ten will still ask for his ma (top looks a bit like katakana ma).	3	95	6		"A pictograph of a child, with arms outstretched for mother (or perhaps because she is chasing a rat?). Note that this kanji occupies the first space on the Zodiac circle, and is the sign for the rat (such as 2008!)."	
了	complete	The experiment was a complete failure! The child was made without any arms!	2	97	6		A child with the arms inside the blanket will be completely wrapped up.	
女	woman	"To remember the order of strokes, remember a female ninja is called a ""kunoichi"". That is, く(hiragana) ノ(katakana) 一(kanji, ichi=one)."	3	98	6		My mother taught me that a woman should always sit with her legs crossed (but the arms can be stretched out).	
如	likeness	"Women share a common likeness. Their mouths are always open, whining about this and that."	6	100	6		From a woman's other 口comes a baby with a perfect likeness.	
貫	pierce	Ariel the Little Mermaid's clamshell bra was held to her breasts by piercings.	11	102	6		The sad fate of Mama shellfish was to be captured and pierced to make an earring.	
兄	elder brother	My elder brother was basically a mouth on legs when he was a teenager.	5	103	6		"Mother, why is elder brother's mouth between the neighbor girl's legs? RTK2:　ケイ　父兄　ふけい　(father and elder brother)　　　　　　　　　キョウ　兄弟　きょうだい(brothers)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　MIXED GROUP:　(ｺｸ): 克104　(ｷｮｳ): 況145　競434　(ｼｭｸ): 祝1089."	
小	little	A little penguin with its wings at its side.	3	105	7		"A depressed child, head low and arms hung low, because he's too little to ride the roller coaster."	
少	few	Only a few people can make an ugly face like that.	4	106	7		"Few usually refers to three. To emphasize three, we underline the three drops in little."	
多	many	Two evenings too many!	6	108	7		"This reminds me of a childish pseudo-confucion rhyme: ""He who eats many prunes sits on toilet many moons""."	
汐	eventide	"Eventide is just another word for evening, and it has the word tide in it which we associate with water."	6	110	7		Drops of water shower the beach as the evening tide approaches: eventide.	
外	outside	A young magician likes to practice outside in the evening with his magic wand (as opposed to the old magician who wakes early to practice with his wand in eminent (#51)).	5	111	7		"Outside in the dark of evening, only a magic wand can help you."	
石	stone	Indiana Jones jumps up and grabs the lip of cliff just in time to evade the huge STONE rolling out of the mouth of the cave!	5	113	7		"There's a VERY simple way to remember this, in case the cliff thing isn't working for you... Just see it as a stone [いし] being hammered by a miner searching for jewel stones [ほうせき] ;)."	
硝	nitrate	That stone has sparks coming out of it! Someone must have poured nitrate acid on it.	12	115	7		"Salpetre is the common name for Nitrate coming from Latin ""sal petrae"" or stone salt. It is also a component of gun powder so including a candle in this kanji can be quite explosive!"	
砕	smash	To SMASH a STONE you need to hit it NINE or TEN times.	9	116	7		The Stones (the Rolling Stones) are 90 aged but they've done a new SMASH hit!	
削	plane	Sparks will fly if you attempt to PLANE your sabre.	9	118	7		"With today's strict air regulations, carrying a sabre onto a plane could spark quite a commotion."	
光	ray	A ray of light is not a wave but made of little photons with human legs.	6	119	7		The ray from Honey I Shrunk the Kids made people little - ha! look at them run around on their tiny legs!	
器	utensil	Imagine four hungry mouths all sitting around the table. They are all banging their utensils on the table waiting for a big meal to be placed in the centre.	15	121	7		"Note: 器 by itself means container/caliber/vessel. And 食器 means eating utensils (""food container"", hehe)."	
妙	exquisite	Exquisite women are few and far between.	7	123	7		"A geisha is an exquisite and delicate (another meaning of this kanji) women, however, even in the past there was only few of them."	
省	focus	You focus by concentrating your eye on fewer objects.	9	124	7		Success (or survival?) method for accelerated juggling course: focus on a few nitroglycerine filled juggling balls flying OVER your eyes ---(I have trouble with this few primitive that can be anywhere in a kanji. To build in its location in the story is important somehow).	
奇	strange	"I find it strange that so many people commit suicide in Tokyo by throwing themselves in front of the train. To me when I look at this kanji, I see a train just about to come out of a tunnel, and above the man waiting for his oppourtunity where he can end it all."	8	126	7		Imagine a ST. BERNARD DOG carrying a CAN instead of a barrel in rescue missions. How strange!	
川	stream	So as not to confuse this with river (#146) think of streamers falling down.	3	127	8		"There are three default I/O Streams in UNIX, stdin, stdout, and stderr."	
順	obey	"""Obey, Obey!"" says the brain-washing scientist as he sends a stream of orders to fill your head."	12	129	8		Obey the orders streaming down from head office.	
氷	icicle	Icicles start with 1 frozen drop of water.	5	131	8		A drop in temperature turns water into an icicle.	
永	eternity	It would take an eternity to count all the drops of water.	5	132	8		"It takes but one drop from the most special water: the fountain of youth (and it is written in a special way to with an extra horizontal line on the top) to live for an eternity. (In order to remember that the drop is at the top, think that the drop must come from the topmost water in order for its effects to be true)."	
原	meadow	Follow the springs down the cliff and you will find a nice meadow.	10	134	8		"Sorry about this, but Heisig was stupid calling this kanji meadow, used in composite words the most common meaning is ORIGIN... To remember just think that life may have begun in pounds or springs in a land with many cliffs ... Just to answer correctly the review lessons think of meadow as the origin of a huge forest."	
願	petition	Let's petition to save that beautiful MEADOW from overdevelopment by signing on this PAGE.	19	135	8		"Japanese hippies PETITION to save a meadow by getting people on the street to sign their page - as you pass by they call out: ""お願いします、おねがいします。”."	
沼	marsh	"The marshlands near Mordor seduce Frodo into gazing upon them, and he falls into the water--splash!"	8	137	8		A marsh is where water is seduced into the ground.	
江	creek	A CREEK is a small trail of water easily crafted with a stick.	6	139	8		"Creeks are small water, easily crossed with a simple i-beam."	
汁	soup	To make soup you just take water and add (+) the rest of your ingredients.	5	140	8		To make soup you just take water and add ten tasty ingredients.	
源	source	The water that flows from the meadow is the source of life for the wild antelope.	13	142	8		The source of clean water is from the meadow (#134): it comes from that spring at the bottom of the cliff. Pay no attention to Julie Andrews lying face down in spring. The water's clean. Trust me.	
活	lively	"Conversations can become more lively after everyone has had a few drinks. It's because ""watery tongues"" loosen lips!"	9	143	8		I'm sure I can get her pretty lively and wet using my tongue.	
況	but of course	"If you ask your teenager if what he's drinking is water (and not Vodka), he will answer ""but of course""."	8	145	8		"キョウ But of course, this character really means ""situation/condition"". ""Elder brother gulped some water and said, 'What the hell was Heisig's mental CONDITION when he came up with this definition? Heisig must have a drinking CONDITION. But of course, if Heisig sticks to water, rather than sake (like me, water quaffing, situation assessing, sober elder brother), his SITUATION may improve.'""　[MODEL COMPOUND: 状況　(じょうきょう)　state of affairs; conditions]."	
泊	overnight	Please supply a guest who stays overnight with WATER and WHITE sheets.	8	147	8		"When I go to an OVERNIGHT party, all I need is a bit of water and some of that hard white. (crack). (not really, but come on. much easier to recall than white sheets)."	
湖	lake	"This is my favorite story. Simply associate the sad moment of an OLD person, standing near the WATER of the lake and looking at the MOON reflected in the lake. The created primitives themselves are put so beautifully, that you will not forget this kanji."	12	148	8		Water reflects the old moon in the lake.	
土	soil	"Remembering soil is easy. If soil is soft, you can take a walking stick and plunge it two* feet into the ground."	3	150	8		King Arthur pulled the magical sword Excalibur out of the hardened soil to claim his place as king.	
吐	spit	"The only things that come out of my MOUTH and onto the GROUND are spit and vomit. Everything else (words, song) floats on the air."	6	151	8		SPIT goes from my MOUTH to the GROUND.	
埼	cape	"This refers to LAND, not the STRANGE gear superheroes wear."	11	153	8		"Cape Cod ""odd"" is a land where odd=strange things happen."	
圭	squared jewel	Piling SOIL upon SOIL for aeons is how SQUARE JEWELS are formed deep in the earth.	6	155	8		How would you stop someone stealing your biggest square jewel? Bury it deep in the soil under ground. Then plant ivy to mark the spot.	
封	seal	The king used a special seal of ivy leaves glued onto his document.	9	156	8		"A bit of ivy glued to a letter can make a lovely SEAL when in a pinch, says Martha Stewart."	
寺	Buddhist temple	"At the Buddhist temple the monks are seated on the ground, glued there in meditation."	6	158	8		"To be allowed to join the Buddhist temple, imagine an aspiring monk being asked to stand still in the soil for a long time in a measurement of his resolve."	
時	time	"When the SUN starts to shine on the TEMPLE, it's time to get up."	10	159	8		"In ancient Japan, TIME of ''day'' was announced at the ''buddhist temples''. They did this by ringing large iron bells. This is similar to churches who ring their bells to announce the time of day."	
火	fire	"For some reason, this kanji reminds me of a person running, her arms (the two drops) raised up, because she caught on fire!"	4	161	8		A tepee getting shot at by fire arrows.	
煩	anxiety	An anxiety feels like FIRE in the HEAD.	13	163	8		"Many performers get ""Michael Jackson anxiety"" wherein they fear their head will catch on fire."	
災	disaster	"What a disaster! First a FIRE, then on top of it came FLOODs."	7	167	8		"Don't know about Japan, but here in Australia, flooding rivers and bushfires are the most common natural disasters."	
点	spot	The FORTUNE TELLER was burned by FLAMES on the spot because she was accused of being a witch.	9	169	8		You have to stimulate the G-spot with your magic wand in order to get her on fire. Or you can juste use your mouth...	
黒	black	"If you burn the GROUND of a RICE FIELD with FIRE, eventually it will turn black."	11	174	9		"If your parent's home catches on fire, it will turn black."	
厘	rin	"I threw my Rindows computer off a cliff because it kept crashing. Now, after its last crash, it's worth less than a rin."	9	178	9		A computer dropped off of a cliff would be worth about 1 RIN.	
同	same	"Muslim women wearing veils (HOOD) all look the same, you can just see ONE MOUTH and very little else."	6	180	9		Imagine monks wandering around the monastery. Covered in their hoods and chanting as if with one mouth they all look the same !	
守	guard	"A GUARD is usually ""glued"" to the house he watches."	6	186	9		A guard provides a measure of security to those under a roof.	
宣	proclaim	You can proclaim your opinions from the comfort of your HOUSE and have it SPAN the entire globe these days via The Internet.	9	188	9		I heard young Muslims have to memorise the Koran and proclaim it aloud as a kind of rite of passage. Imagine the SPAN of hours spent under a ROOF practising that! It must surely be worse than trying to get through Heisigs RTK - count yourself lucky.	
宴	banquet	The WOMAN spent all DAY preparing a banquet in the HOUSE.	10	191	9		"Under the roof, all day long, the woman prepared for the banquet (this wording helps me remember the order of this kanji's elements)."	
富	wealth	Remember Ducktales? That rich duck had that room in his house where he kept all the wealth! He had so much in that house you could even swim in it!	12	193	9		"In ancient Japan, a RICE FIELD is a unit of wealth as it can produce enough to feed all the MOUTHs in ONE HOUSE."	
柏	oak	"The wood from oak trees can be used to make barrels in which white wine is aged. What's more, I love white wine with an oaky flavour..."	9	199	10		"An oak tree is white, from left to right!"	
梢	treetops	"At Christmas time, on the treetops, people used to place great big candles (Now we usually place a star instead)."	11	201	10		"If you cut off the treetops, they still resemble the trees they used to be part of. Treetops=tree resemblance."	
植	plant	Plants don't become trees straightaway.	12	205	10		"When you plant plants, you use a piece of WOOD to make the plant grow STRAIGHT."	
朴	crude	Wooden wands are the crudest. They are nothng compared to their carbon fibre equivilents.	6	207	10		"A beginner magician starts with a crude wooden magic wand. Later he'll upgrade to magicite, of course."	
相	inter-	The prime minister is having inter-course behind that tree! All you can see are his eyes poking out from the righthand-side of the tree.	9	209	10		"ソウ/ショウ/あ INTER /MUTUAL /ASPECT /PHASE /MINISTER. ""Long ago, before there were telephones, people living far from one another would climb trees to eye each other's aspects and inter-act for their mutual benefit. Those who did this best became government ministers, with the top person (perhaps the one with the longest neck (首, neck (#70)) becoming the prime minister 「首相 (しゅしょう)""."	
机	desk	"My wooden desk is so messy, it looks like a strong wind blew my things all over it."	6	210	10		"Whenever I'm alone at my computer desk, I'm always getting wood and breaking wind."	
札	tag	Botanists like to identify TREEs by HOOKing tags on them.	5	212	10		"Might be good to note that this is also the Kanji for ""Paper Money"" w/ the reading さつ (千円札＝1000 Yen paper bill)... It also takes on the meaning of Playing Card with the reading of ふだ as in 花札 (Hanafuda cards) or トランプの札 (""trump"" playing cards). For the tag meaning I like to think of wooden tags hung on hooks from trees... but for these other meanings I like to think of both paper money and playing cards as paper (tree) products with the ability to ""hook you in"" so to speak."	
未	not yet	I believe a better version of that by mameha1977: [Cheat] Remember these as a set: The tree (木) does not yet (未) have exremities (末) of vermilion (朱).	5	216	10		[Cheat] Remember these as a set: The tree (木) is not yet (末) vermilion (朱).	
沫	splash	The extremity of a wave of water is the splash.	8	218	10		A splash is WATER that has reached its EXTREMITY.	
妹	younger sister	My younger sister is NOT YET a fully grown WOMAN.	8	220	10		Is your younger sister a woman? Not yet! Damn!	
草	grass	Grass grows in earlier than flowers.	9	224	10		This grass is very long. The only flowers you can see are sunflowers – the rest are hidden by the grass.	
寛	tolerant	A tolerant person will ignore SEEing GRASS (marijuana) in the HOUSE of a friend.	13	226	10		"To be tolerant is to see flowers (meaning ""beautiful things"") in every house, instead of looking for drawbacks."	
葉	leaf	"On top of the leaves a flower appears, promising new generations for the old tree below."	12	228	10		The flower generation spent far too much time up trees trying to smoke leaves.	
暮	livelihood	He made a livelihood out of robbing GRAVEYARDS in broad DAYlight.	14	232	10		"The gravedigger makes his LIVELIHOOD digging in the graveyard all day For graveyard, imagine an idyllic picture: beautiful grass with the sun shining down...and a dog peeing on one of the graves. Don't confuse with occupation (#1034). Hold onto the irony of making your LIVElyhood from tending dead people."	
苗	seedling	If you plant seedlings in a FIELD eventually they will FLOWER.	8	234	10		Crap! There are flowers in the rice field... Who let those seedlings get in there?!	
兆	portent	When your wife's LEGs get huge hairs on them it is surely a bad portent for things to come.	6	235	11		A bad portent makes the hairs on your legs stand.	
眺	stare	Sauron's One fiery eye stare at Frodo and it is a sign of portent. Evil will become whomever the eye is staring upon.	11	237	11		"You lost a staring contest with a turtle because you blinked your eye before he did. (The contest wasn't fair, because turtles have nictitating membranes, and don't need to blink so often.) Eye comes first, because stare is most associated with eyes. And compare with challenge (#658) where this same obstreperous turtle challenges you to a finger wrestling contest. (Sibyl's story with some notes that helped me)."	
状	status quo	It was left to the turtle to make right with the dog and thus maintain the status quo..	7	239	11		A turtle mounting a chihuahua clearly disrupts the status quo.	
狩	hunt	Actually when hunting it may be a good idea to use a pack of dogs as your personal guard.	9	243	11		"After a pack of wild dogs hunt some food, they will guard it fiercely."	
牛	cow	"A cow tried to climb up a vermilion tree, but in doing so, it broke its two bottom branches off."	4	245	11		A cow bleeds vermilion when you cut off two of it's legs.	
界	world	One Japanese farmer I know is so small minded that he thinks the entire world is JAMMED IN the borders of his little RICE FIELD.	9	251	12		A famous philosopher once said that his world consisted of all the things he could jam into his brain.	
合	fit	"I wouldn't mind a meeting of mouths with her, she's really fit !"	6	253	12		He had such a big mouth that he could easily fit one whole umbrella in it.	
宝	treasure	On treasure island is a single house - where all the jewels are stored.	8	257	12		"Put a ""roof"" (lid) on your jewels and voila! You've got a treasure chest."	
現	present	The KING ... can SEE clearly the PRESENT state of affairs in the land. (maybe he hees them in the crystal ball on the left?).	11	259	12		"Hey, I want my money back! This crystal ball is out of order, I can see the present instead of the future!"	
理	logic	The king of LOGIC is the computer.	11	265	12		Computers are ruled by logic (it is the king of computers).	
注	pour	Visualize an idiot trying to figure out how to extinguish a candle. He sees a glass of WATER and decides to pour it onto the CANDLESTICK to put it out. Water spills everywhere.	8	267	12		Like water the hot wax poured down the side of the candlestick.	
柱	pillar	The main pillar in a house should be made of the biggest and strongest tree - the lord of the trees.	9	268	12		"""Why has this pillar been carved in the shape of a giant penis?!"" ""You said that 'it should be made of wood', My Lord.""."	
銑	pig iron	"Pig iron is basic/crude metal, that is, before it has been processed."	14	270	12		"Pig-iron is crude metal (金) before (先) it is refined. If you have trouble with this character, envision a big minotaur (cow head with human legs) as a blacksmith, smelting metals and making swords for war."	
銅	copper	"I can't believe no one has used this one yet: Copper is metal which looks almost the same as gold. Really, look it up on Wikipedia, it's yellow and it's shiny (atleast in some compounds)!"	14	272	12		"Copper is an excellent conductor. In other words, it's a metal for which the voltage is the same everywhere. That's why it's used for wires."	
鎮	tranquillize	Tranquilize - using a metal syringe to get the truth.	18	276	12		Enough gold can tranquilize the truth in anyone.	
導	guidance	"For guidance on the road-way, glue a GPS unit to your car."	15	278	13		Good guidance will help you stay glued to the right path.	
迫	urge	"When you have the URGE to go to White Castle, you know it's time to hit the road."	8	282	13		"When you start down the road of cocaine, you're sure to feel some pretty bad URGEs soon."	
辺	environs	"Caution: this kanji doesn't mean environment; it means ""environs; boundary; border; vicinity"". To separate the environs, create the border by placing daggers on the road."	5	284	13		"To protect the environs around their village, samurai would travel the roads with their swords."	
車	car	My car is so fast it can go through ten rice fields in ten minutes.	7	286	13		"Rather than hobbling along with a walking stick to cross through a span, it's much better to use a car. (Imagine an old man with a walking stick creeping along a span of road, and you, in a car, whizzing right by him. It's funny 'cause it's true.) Also, it's important to include the word ""through,"" so you know the walking stick goes right THROUGH the span."	
前	in front	When I get horny my flesh sword sticks out in front of me.	9	290	13		"If you stand in front of a bull's horns, you are asking for your flesh to be cut (or butchered if you prefer)."	
格	status	"""Ranger! I want you to go check the status of each tree."" ""Errr, Each tree sir?"" replies the ranger looking out over the vast forest. ""That's Right, I want the status of each tree! Move out!""."	10	292	13		A man measures his own status by the size of his woody...and compares it to each one he sees.	
夏	summer	In SUMMER you are hot from the top of your head down to your walking legs.	10	296	13		"I personally think it was too confusing to try and use head as the primitive. (How am I supposed to remember that the animal legs are replaced with walking legs instead of human legs?) Rather, I think have the image of a hot summer and you want to keep oneself under a ceiling not out jogging around."	
条	twig	They all say they have a TREE between their WALKING LEGS but most only have a TWIG.	7	298	13		"Don't confuse with branch or bough - think of snapping twigs. A twig is always the kind of wood that snaps when the hunter's walking legs just barely touch it, making a snapping sound that alerts the prey to the hunter's presence."	
冗	superfluous	"The king's crown was blown off by the wind. ""Oh well,"" he said, ""it's just a superfluous symbol.""."	4	300	14		"The court jester wears a crown and is full of wind with bad jokes. He is superfluous to the King's court. This kanji is read as ""JOU"" and commonly used to create the compound for jou-dan 冗談 (jest or joke) hence court jester. Also jou-go 冗語 (redundancy) and jou-in 冗員 (useless workers) 員-employee (#56)."	
冠	crown	"Remember the SUPERFLUOUS CROWN that flew away in the WIND? Well now the king is saying ""i should have had the thing GLUED to my head from the BEGINNING""."	9	304	14		"A crown, from the beginning of the new king's life, is glued to him. He must inherit it."	
坑	pit	A whirlwind digs a hole in the ground throwing out lots of dirt until it ends up with a giant pit.	7	306	14		Tazmanian Devil whirlwinds a pit into the soil. Note: Take care difference between pit and rut.	
京	capital	"Tokyo, capital of Japan: tall buildings, small people (compared to the buildings)."	8	312	14		"The capital is where the powerful act formal wearing top hats, open their mouths, and get little done."	
景	scenery	Imaging the sun rising over the capital--classic postcard scenery.	12	314	14		"Anyone who's been to Kyoto doesn't need to think too deeply into this Kanji! Imagine a sunny day in the old capital, and there's no better scenery."	
週	week	Imagine a road built so well that it takes only a week to travel the circumference of the earth.	11	318	14		"Actually the week is like a never ending road where we travel in a circle through the same seven days again and again, the circumference is always the same. circumference (#317) also means circuit or lap, so that also makes think about the rotations of the moon, sun and the earth -- all important for measuring all kinds of time periods."	
吉	good luck	The samurai's wife gives him a (uhum) before battle for good luck.	6	320	14		"A true samurai gentleman will always mouth, ""Good luck"" to his opponents before a match."	
栄	flourish	"The TREES FLOURISH in the CLASSROOM, a little too much perhaps, there's no room for the students any more."	9	326	15		Students are like young trees. They tend to flourish in the schoolhouse.	
津	haven	A brush laying in dirty water is a haven for bacteria.	9	328	15		The haven for a BRUSH is in WATER.. Otherwise they get dry and withered and cant be used?!	
枚	sheet of	"The taskmaster is a strict bathroom monitor who hands out only one sheet of really rough, splintery toilet paper per person. You can see the wood fibers."	8	332	15		"This taskmaster is the bathroom nazi: he counts how many sheets of toilet paper and tissue you use, and then tells you what % of a tree you just killed."	
敬	awe	The flowery phrases of the schoolmaster held the students in awe.	12	334	15		敬 【けい】 (n) reverence; respect. 敬語 【けいご】 (n) honorific; term of respect; (P) STORY: The TASKMASTER demands RESPECT. If you don't talk to him in HONORIFICS and FLOWERY PHRASES you will be sorry.	
警	admonish	To admonish is to enforce awe by means of words.	19	336	15		Watch in awe as mom admonishes the rude clerk with words that you've never heard her use before.	
討	chastise	"I said some bad words, and my mother chastised me by washing my mouth out with glue instead of soap!"	10	340	15		"In Colonial New England, people who committed adultery had words glued to them. A famous example is the ""A"" worn by Hester Prynn for committing adultery (i.e., not being chaste). In this way, words glued to you are supposed to chastise you and prevent further breaches of chastity."	
詔	imperial edict	"The mnemonic ""words to seduce the masses"" was just too vague and I kept forgetting it. So now instead I picture a seductive female reading aloud the imperial edict to the masses, thus ""seducing"" the masses."	12	342	15		The emperor did not need an imperial edict; his words were more than enough to seduce Anakin to the dark side.	
詩	poem	A poem is a temple of words.	13	346	15		WORDS used in a TEMPLE must be very well chosen. That's why most people will speak using a poem if they are SAYING something in a TEMPLE.	
読	read	Read the WORDS used to SELL things.	14	348	15		People will say (言) almost anything to make a sale (売); don't believe everything you read (読).	
談	discuss	Think of an online discussion group where misunderstanding someone's words leads to flaming. An angry discussion = inflamed words.	15	350	15		Internet discussions often involve inflammatory words. Flame war!	
試	test	"In an essay test, you are judged on both your choice of words and your writing style."	13	354	16		The Japanese oral exam was a test of my speaking style.	
域	range	"An astronaut lands back at the launch range, kisses the earth beneath him with his mouth, then heads off to a fiesta to celebrate a safe flight."	11	356	16		"Instead of Heisig's ""Fiesta"" I use ""Spear"". Why? A spear is just a DROP extra on an Arrow. 域, range actually means range as in limits/boundary/border sort of range(In a box it was the old meaning for Country國 (581). Ok way too much etymology here, but back to story. With your SPEAR standing in a HOLE on the FLOOR with SOIL to its left9as you dug some out), you can see the RANGE of the spear in attacking a possible enemy (re Diablo and other RPGs, spear's have range)."	
茂	overgrown	"The gay parade looks astonishing, as if overgrown with flowers."	8	360	16		"When your garden gets OVERGROWN, it's like the plants are mocking you. Here, you can see the roses actually parading around the yard, wilfully choking out the other, more docile plants. Then they actually go and parade down the street!"	
城	castle	The sand castle is just the soil (#150) that turns into a castle.	9	362	16		"""Someday this mound of dirt here will turn into our CASTLE"", the ants think to themselves when scoping out a new ant hill."	
銭	coin	Political hopefuls in Rome threw gold COINS from floats when they were campaigning for office.	14	368	16		Interesting fact: The Japanese one yen coin is the only coin in the world that can float on water. http://www.hanamiweb.com/floatingyen.jpg.	
止	stop	"If you find in the ground a walking stick with a magic wand, STOP! Maybe it's some kind of macumba/black magic/voodoo bad thing."	4	370	17		"If you don't remember this one from the 10,000,000 STOP signs on roads all over Japan, you're beyyond help!"	
武	warrior	ONE-ARROW can STOP a warrior.	8	377	17		A great warrior can stop any 0pponent with one arrow.	
正	correct	If you do it correct on the first attempt you can stop.	5	379	17		"The correct way of learning Japanese? First, stop everything you're doing. Then, go pick up a copy of Heisig's book and work from there."	
錠	lock	"Even if you lock up your GOLD, a DETERMINED thief will get it in the end."	16	383	17		"The best stories for this kanji tend to have a thief in them, which always makes me confuse them with the kanji for burglar (357). So, let's try this one: My girlfriend wears a metal chastity belt with a lock but I am determined to open it! I must get inside!"	
超	transcend	"A successful marathon runner needs to be able to transcend seductions, such as the possibility of rest, shelter from the rain, or a cold beer."	12	385	17		"To transcend oneself is to reach a higher plane of reality. A head shaven monk is telling me this. We are in a Tibetan monastery. He was once an athlete, a runner. He used to run everywhere, until one day, he saw a beautiful cheerleader along his path. She tried very hard to seduce him, but he forced himself to transcend his urges. He did reach his running goal, and he has became a lonely monk. He wishes now he had just broken down back then and...."	
越	surpass	The person in charge of running the parade surpassed all our expectations (by just a extra drop...).	12	387	17		The parade of runners are all trying to SURPASS each other - and they end up running all the way to Vietnam (note that this kanji is also used for the country of Vietnam).	
建	build	"Build is easy to remember if you can remember that archtiechts have two steps in building. 1. Take a brush and brush out the blueprints. 2. Get a visual image of the blueprints all rolled up like they usually are. The second step is easy, it's just the architecht stretching out the blueprints and showing it to his clients."	9	391	17		"A construction worker's classic morning. Stretch, brush his teeth, and then start to build."	
誕	nativity	"Nativity = born, being born. Think of birth as a painful and prolonged event. And of course, all the words and curses being yelled at the soon-to-be father for doing this to her!"	15	393	17		"When you are being born ( nativity ), your mother's WORDS are PROLONGED. (Thiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiis huuuuuuuuuuuuuurtss a lottttttttt~!! Owwwwwww!!!)."	
裁	tailor	The tailor was hard at work making sure all the pilgrims were dressed in their best garments for thanksgiving.	12	397	18		The tailor worked hard after thanksgiving to alter garments so they'd fit people who'd eaten too much at their thanksgiving dinners.	
裏	back	The computer had carefully dressed up in clothes to look human. It was n't until I looked at the back and saw the cables and stuff that I realized what it was.	13	399	18		"Can computers be gay? I'm not sure, but mine always wears a top hat and scarf, and for some reason its back door port is always open..."	
布	linen	A matador holding his red linen by his side.	5	405	18		"The first rule of the Hitch-Hiker's Guide to the Universe is ""DON'T PANIC!"" The second rule, of course, is to always have a towel by your side. Personally, I prefer the linen sort."	
幅	hanging scroll	"In the west, the rich use $100 bills to light their cigars... In Japan, after showering, when the wealthy don't have any clean towels, they simply grab a hanging scroll off the wall and use it to dry off!"	12	407	18		The towels of the wealthy: hanging scrolls.	
錦	brocade	Brocade is the art of sewing gold on a white towel.	16	411	18		"Never heard of this word before encountering it here. So it turns out that the fanciest brocade in the world is actually a towel used by a Turkish monarch. It's embroidered with gold and cocaine. Yes, cocaine - what you thought it'd be something else? That is some true art right there. I think a great many people would want to own this towel."	
姉	elder sister	"Unlike the younger sister (妹), who is not yet old enough to date... the elder sister is on the market!"	8	413	18		She's old enough to be allowed to go to the market.	
滞	stagnate	"History of the first karate blackbelts: In those days, it was often difficult to find fresh, clean water, so samurai usually had to wash their sashes in stagnant puddles. The longer one had been studying martial arts, the older the sash on one's karate uniform and, therefore, the darker the color. So why weren't their karate uniforms black too? Never seen a ninja????"	13	416	18		A moat is a stagnate ring of water like an obi (sash) of water tied around the castle.	
制	system	The system for making leather belts involves slicing up a cow with a sword.	8	418	18		"Why all the gore and violence? How about a samurai cow? He doesn't have to be a violent samurai, either. He only wears the sword because he's part of the bushi SYSTEM. Actually, he studies ikebana, shodo, and zen. Imagine him sitting cross-legged in a Zen temple (a very Special Zen temple). The master asks him if a dog has buddha nature and, shifting the swords in his belt, he calmly replies, ""Moo!""."	
雨	rain	From the ceiling hangs a towel dripping four drops like RAIN.	8	422	18		"Towel hung out on a line to ....oops, it's rain."	
曇	cloudy weather	Cloudy weather is when a cloud blocks the sun (up above).	16	424	18		"In cloudy weather, the sun is still there even if obscured by the clouds...　RTK2:　ドン　曇天　どんてん(cloudy skies)."	
天	heavens	"If you think of the sky as a ceiling above our heads, here you have the heavens as the largest ceiling you could ever imagine. As Heisig pointed out, nothing comes above the ceiling primitive thus the order of primitives is taken care of."	4	428	18		"The ceiling that all large dogs aspire to go to is known as heaven. After all, All Dogs Go to Heaven."	
嬌	attractive	The most attractive woman in the world is obviously Angelina Jolie.	15	430	18		"The most attractive of women are said to resemble angels. Similarly, angelic women tend to be attractive."	
瞳	pupil	"In Japanese comics, the eye's of juvenilles all have enormouse pupils."	17	437	18		WARNING: This kanji only means the pupil of the eye. It can be confusing to use a story that has pupil meaning student in it.	
商	make a deal	I use what I think is the real etymology for this kanji which is so shocking it sticks. The STANDING member at the top is a certain part of the body that all men have and it is approaching the HOLE between TWO LEGS (the HOOD) with extra marks to show they are FLESHY - ie a womans legs. So this shows the oldest DEAL of all time - prostitution.	11	439	18		"Slick Willy standing on the motorcycle helmet he's trying to sell you to demonstrate how rugged it is. His legs crash through the top of it and after a moment of awkward silence his mouth opens and says, ""hey, we can still make a deal.""."	
北	north	Warning: The left part is NOT the primitive turtle! The stroke order is different. Sometimes it will look exactly the same but not always depending on the font / style used to draw this character. Be sure to study the difference!	5	445	18		"In the north, the weather is so cold that people are often seen sitting back to back to preserve warmth."	
比	compare	A gay couple about to turn around to compare which role is better...	4	447	18		Compare the two spoons... the one on the left is funny-looking.	
渇	thirst	You awaken from your siesta because you feel extremely thirsty so you go looking for some water.	11	451	18		"The muchacho taking his SIESTA cries out that he is THIRSTY. So you pull out a bottle of WATER and pretend you're going to give it to him...but then you dump it all on the ground before his eyes. HAHA, sucked in muchacho!!"	
喝	hoarse	"If you have a siesta with your mouthopen, you will wake up with a hoarse voice."	11	454	18		"After taking a siesta, you find that your mouth is hoarse (after all you ARE thirsty remember)."	
脂	fat	"Every chef will tell you, fat is what make the meat taste delicious."	10	456	18		"Fat is the most delicious part of the flesh. (Note this refers to physical fat, not the concept of obesity obese (#494))."	
梅	plum	"Plums actually grow on every single tree. What, you didn't know that? They do. Orange trees, apple trees, cantaloupe trees. Plums are simply mutant fruits that have been installed in the root software of every single tree. I hear that some plum-loving scientists are working on a way to hack every tree's genetic code so that every tree will bear nothing _but_ plums."	10	460	18		"EVERY Japanese person asks you if you like UMEBOSHI. No I say, I prefer to eat my PLUMS fresh from the TREE."	
乞	beg	"Lying down, Captain Hook is begging to be spared from the ticking crocodile."	3	462	18		Men beg lying down. Women beg as hookers.	
欠	lack	"To me, this kanji looks like a person with two arms and two legs, but who lacks a head."	4	466	18		When your body lacks oxygen you yawn.	
炊	cook	"Japanese cooking sometimes lacks fire, e.g., sashimi."	8	468	18		"This character shows the difference between a cook and a chef: a chef prepares food with passion and love; a cook only stands there with a pan over a fire, with no passion and just yawning."	
軟	soft	"Cars are rough steel things, lacking softness."	11	470	18		"If your car has really soft seats, you may start yawning and eventually fall asleep at the wheel (imagine that this seat is a huge soft beanbag that nearly swallows the driver, and it will be easier to remember)."	
姿	figure	"The next woman always has a better figure! Thinking like that, you'll end up alone in an old folks home longing for the good old days!"	9	474	18		"Whenever I am next to a woman, I can't help but take notice of her figure."	
賠	compensation	Compensation is money you give to someone to shut them up (i.e. muzzle their mouth).	15	476	19		Compensation is a kind of euphemism for hush money here. Money that muzzles.	
鏡	mirror	Mirror should suggest vanity. Imagine a spoiled girl who gets her parents to buy her a Golden mirror so she can stand in front of it all day vainly admiring her lovely human legs.	19	483	19		metal + stand up + sun + legs remember the legend of Amaterasu who retired in a cave. the other Gods brought a MIRROR made of polished METAL at the entrance of the cave. Amaterasu who was STANDING UP saw her image of the SUN and began to dance with her LEGS.	
亡	deceased	The top hat hanging on a hook belonged to the now deceased Charlie Chaplin.	3	485	19		The recently DECEASED are said to hang their hats on a hook by the door to the afterlife.	
望	ambition	"You're dead meat, buddy, my ambition is to be king."	11	489	19		The ambitions of kings often result in dead bodies.	
妨	disturb	Capt. Jack Sparrow's compass gets disturbed every time a beautiful woman walks by him (just picture Keira Knightley in her sexy asian outfit as Elizabeth and the image will be fixed forever).	7	491	19		One way to Disturb a woman is to give her directions while she is in the middle of driving -- she just can't take that kind of stress.	
脱	undress	HORNY TEENAGERS love to UNDRESS FLESH.	11	498	19		Before you undress I should warn you -- the sight of flesh brings out the devil in me.	
鋭	pointed	Pointed is the metal devil's pitchfork.	15	500	19		"The Horny teenager who worked part time at a gold smelting plant always had uncontrollable errections that pointed out all the time, this is not a good thing to have when you work in a gold smelting plant, surely he will one day end up with a Goldmember!"	
東	east	Traditionally seen as a pictograph of the sun rising behind a tree.	8	504	19		The sun pierces through the trees as it rises in the east…　　　　　　RTK2:　トウ　東北　とうほく (the northeast)　東京　とうきょう(Tokyo)… MIXED GROUP　凍506　(ﾁﾝ):陳1301　(ﾚﾝ): 練1343　錬2030.	
凍	frozen	"Eastern Siberia is often frozen by ice. According to wikipedia, Yakutia (in Eastern Siberia) holds the record as the coldest town on Earth. Check it out yourself...it made it stick for me!"	10	506	19		The ice will stay frozen until the sun is visible through the trees.	
賓	V.I.P.	"This house is reserved to V.I.P. only. If you are not one of the few with enough money to call you that way, keep out!"	15	511	20		"The V.I.P. visits your house, but your ceiling is too low for his inflated head, which he bumps and hurts. You have to give him your few shells as compensation."	
栃	horse chestnut	"There are a bunch of HORSE CHESTNUT TREES on top of this CLIFF above the beach. Chestnuts keep rolling off the cliff and falling on people's heads. So far TEN THOUSAND people have been killed by falling chestnuts, and the Japanese government still ain't did shit about it."	9	514	20		"There is a horse chestnut tree that has grown by a cliff for so long, it has deposited 10,000 horse chesnuts that lie at the bottom. Don't worry over this one too much, you'll spend so much time trying to figure out the right story for it, you probably won't forget it."	
池	pond	"Remember the story of the scorpion that begged the turtle for a ride across the pond? Halfway across the water, the scorpion stung the turtle on the neck and they both sank to the bottom."	6	516	21		Water scorpions loves to live in the pond.	
蛍	lightning bug	Bugs have to go to school to learn how to become lightning bugs. Only the brightest bugs graduate to become lightning bugs.	11	518	21		"Q: Who's the smartest insect in school? A: The lightning-bug. Because he's so bright! (Image: lightning bug in school with glasses, pocket protector, etc. Maybe even have some cool kids teasing him)."	
虹	rainbow	"Little is it known that a rainbow is actually created by insects of different colours flying in formation, a craft they have perfected to create the rainbows we see today."	9	520	21		"Rainbow is of course created by billions of colored insects (what? you really thought it was an optical illusion?). However I had problems remembering that the insect primitive goes on the left. If you have similar difficulties, try this: rainbow is an Insect-Craft. Mnemonic: I.C. Rainbow (I see rainbow)."	
妃	queen	Cleopatra.	6	527	21		"Be careful you don't pick up a drag queen at a club - they might look like women, but they have a snake down there!"	
記	scribe	A scribe writes down the words spoken by a snake (i.e. a lawyer).	10	529	21		"Snakes have no hands. So, when a snake needs to write down something, it has to call in a SCRIBE, who will write down all the sayings of the snake."	
泡	bubble	"When water forms a bubble, it wraps a pocket of air."	8	533	21		"To prevent people from popping bubble wrap for fun, the post office has started filling the bubbles with water."	
竜	dragon	"Have you ever seen an asian DRAGON? it looks like an eel, but can stand up because it has legs."	10	536	21		"If the poor villagers don't provide him with a vase full of eels each day, the dragon will lay waste to the village."	
豚	pork	Pork comes from the flesh of a sow.	11	538	21		"One possible pictograph for ""sow"" primitive: the top line is a feeding trough, the stroke touching it is the head, the long curved stroke is the body (with a little hook at the end for the curly tail), and the four remaining strokes are the sow's legs."	
嫁	marry into	"Since the Nihonjin man is hardly ever home, the woman feels more like she's married into the house than into a relationship."	13	542	21		"Traditionally, it was the women who would marry into the households of their husband's families."	
腸	intestines	Intestines are the part of the body that is taken out of piglets to make piggy banks. Just imagine factory workers scraping out the intestines of real piglets and packaging them up for little children.	13	544	21		"Taking things too literally, you used a real piglet as a piggy bank. Now when you smash it open to get your coins out, you have to dig out your coins from its intestines. ew."	
羊	sheep	"Picture of a sheep run over by a steam roller. Must have been a ram, note the horns."	6	547	21		Our Lord and King put on ears and a tail to become a lowly sheep for the slaughter.	
鮮	fresh	"The freshest fish is caught in the middle of the night while most people are ""counting sheep."" (If you've ever been to Tsukiji fish market, you know what I mean)."	17	551	21		"This one's easy to remember. The kanji gives 2 examples of foods that should be purchased fresh. To remember which foods, take the first letter of fresh, ""F"", to stand for fish and the final sound of fresh, ""SH"", to stand for sheep: FreSH. It even puts the primitives in the right order."	
羨	envious	"A very thirsty sheep, who always lacked water, spends his days watching his fellow sheep (in the farm next door or in another pen) and being very envious of their water."	13	553	21		"Envious of the greener grass on the other side of the fence, the sheep looks down in disgust at his own dry grass lacking water."	
雑	miscellaneous	"Newscast: ""Among today's miscellaneous stories, we have a report on a baseball team that was chased up a tree by a turkey. Stay tuned for this and more!""."	14	562	21		"On the left we have baseball and wood, which obviously means a baseball bat. Instead of balls, there are miscellaneous other objects you may hit with it. While beating people may be one favorite use, in this case we see it used for making turkey mash."	
奪	rob	"Remember the scene in A Christmas Story where the big dogs robbed the family of their Christmas turkey? Well, the following year Ralphie's mom glued the holiday bird to the kitchen table, just as a precaution."	14	566	21		Don't let the neighbor's St.Bernard rob tonight's turkey....glue it to the table if you must.	
許	permit	"If horses could speak, you might have to ask their permission before mounting them."	11	569	21		Mr Ed ( a famous talking horse ) was finally at a loss for words when told he would need a permit for public speaking.	
権	authority	"I have Eric Cartman of the “South Park” animated series, wearing a cop uniform, riding a wooden Pegasus (such as on a funfair), and yelling “RESPECT MY AUTHORITAH!!!”."	15	571	21		No one has the authority to tie up a pegasus to a tree!	
曰	sayeth	"""Sayeth""?! Who the hell says ""sayeth""? Doesn't seem quite right...just like this kanji, which is just like ""day"" but doesn't seem ""quite right.""."	4	578	22		"When pent up alone, one sayeth little."	
固	harden	Fossils are old things pent in that have hardened.	8	580	22		"Remember Metapod from Pokemon? All it used was harden, which kept it pent in until it grew old enough to evolve into Butterfree.."	
姻	matrimony	Matrimony is the state in which the woman has got you pent in like a dog so that you cannot go after other bitches.	9	584	22		"When the woman gets angry, she treats her man like a pent in dog (i.e., puts him in the doghouse). It's a perfect metaphor for the state of matrimony."	
回	-times	Write mouth two -times.	6	586	22		"Pretty much a pictograph, see book. Keyword meanings : to turn round, counter for number of times, counter for rounds. Some simple compounds using previously learned kanji : 次回 (next time), 毎回 (every time/each round), 回る (to wander around)."	
絶	discontinue	The Spider-man's multi-colored tie-dye costume comic book series was discontinued after only one issue because of poor sales and fan protests.	12	1754	45		"Spiderman has decided to discontinue his red color suit in favor of the black one, it looks way cooler."	
庫	warehouse	"I think of the Batcave. It's a big cave that Batman uses as a warehouse to store his car, the Batmobile, and all his cool big-boy toys."	10	589	22		Have you ever worked in a warehouse? It's like a giant metal cave. Watch out for that forklift!	
庁	government office	"Some bureaucrats at a government office decided that the tunnels of caves need to get street signs, which are then nailed to the walls of the cave."	5	591	22		"In some of the scarier countries, when someone is invited to visit a ""government office"", it's actually a dungeon where they're dragged into a cave and nailed to the wall."	
麻	hemp	"(Image: while Batman is out, Robin is smokin' a huge doob in a secret corner of the Batcave where he nurtures his hemp grove)."	11	593	22		"Where is the best place to hid your grove of hemp trees? In a cave, you dope!"	
心	heart	"The four chambers in the heart. In the West, we point to our head when asked about the mind. In the East, they point to the heart. So then, the radical for ""state of mind""…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　シン　安心　あんしん(peace of mind)."	4	595	22		Heart needs three drops of blood to work.	
認	acknowledge	"You are given a speech about some serious mistakes of yours, and you have to endure the whole thing, because all you can do is acknowledge."	14	598	22		"I never read the ""acknowledgements"" section of books or theses, because they are mostly just boring words that i must endure reading, before i can get to the interesting part. :)."	
忠	loyalty	Their true loyalty exists in the middle of their hearts.	8	602	22		Your loyalty is to what's in your heart.	
患	afflicted	A person who is afflicted with the vampire disease can only be killed with a sheesh-kebab through the heart.	11	604	22		"If you are afflicted with severe heartburn, eating a spicy shish kebab will feel only slightly less painful than having it jammed straight into your heart."	
憩	recess	Recess to me is a school break. At recess some kiddies are comparing their latest body piercings. Tongues and noses are nothing special. The new cool is to have your heart done!	16	611	22		"Ah recess; tongues slandering, noses being turned up, and beneath it all, young hearts being broken. Dominant in playgrounds is the noise of tongues, which helps me remember that in this kanji tongue comes first."	
恐	fear	"If your heart surgeon is mediocre in his craft, you have plenty of reason to fear. (""Oops, I think I left my scissors in there"")."	10	613	22		My deep dark fear at the bottom of my heart is that I am mediocre at my craft.	
感	emotion	Emotion is a march of mouths inside your heart telling you what to feel.	13	615	22		"Strong EMOTIONS don't stay hidden. They march right out of one's heart (below) and out one's mouth (shouted, snarled, or gently whispered - depending on exactly what kind of emotion it is!)."	
悦	ecstasy	ECSTASY alters our STATE OF MIND and makes us DEVILS.	10	619	22		The state of mind that horny teenagers are looking for.	
悟	enlightenment	Enlightenment is a state of mind that goes beyond the five senses.	10	622	22		"Data finds enlightenment when he discovers the answer to the question, ""Who am I?"". (Image: Data meditating in a sitting lotus position)."	
慌	disconcerted	(re: wazzab) The state of mind of the people of New Orleans as they examined their city's concert hall laid waste can best described as disconcerted.	12	624	22		"Data walks in and sees Picard weeping. ""What is the matter, Captain?"" Picard looks up, and replies that his entire home planet has been laid to waste. Data, the master of tact, offers up this consolation: ""Ah. I can see how that would be DISCONCERTing"". It turns out that the flow of tears was really just because Picard had lost his chance at getting at some rare (and thus valuable) flowers on his home planet."	
憎	hate	"Like the saying goes, Hate just begets Hate. A state of mind that just increases and increases until it explodes."	14	626	22		Data's one true emotion is hate for Prince's music. (Image: Data hunched over hands to his ears and screaming while Picard bobs to Purple Rain).	
惰	lazy	"When I am in a LAZY state of mind I use my left hand to play with my meat...it feels like someone else is doing it, which is good cause I'm to lazy to get a date."	12	629	22		"When in a lazy state of mind, the things you need to do are left for next month."	
憾	remorse	Remorse is the state of mind where I feel bad for what I did while I was tired and emotional!	16	631	22		"Tip: If you are confusing this keyword, remorse, with repent (#625) and regret/resentment (#1460), then note that rEMOrse contains EMOtion."	
必	invariably	"You swear you'll be in love forever, but invariably there comes a time when your heart is divided."	5	635	22		"For this kanji I invariably got the stroke order wrong. I nearly lost heart, but decided to stick (pun) to it. Then I noticed the order is 1) katakana ソ (altered slightly); 2) fishhook; 3) two drops. Now I invariably get it right."	
看	watch over	"It's a hot day of summer with a clear sky, you're sitting outside a cafe (or maybe on a reclining chair in the garden), and you watch over the kids with a hand covering your eyes from the sunlight (next time, don't forget the sunglasses)."	9	638	23		"Think of the monster from Pan's Labrynth, that watched over the poor girl with eyes in the palm of his hands."	
我	ego	"Someone with a huge EGO is too good for any romantic partner and as such has nothing but personal ""hand fiestas"" with himself every night."	7	640	23		Did you hear about the guy who had such a big EGO that he threw a fiesta for his left hand?	
抹	rub	"I like to RUB my FINGERS over my EXTREMITIES ....like my extremity-ly long, umm, hair.... This has been edited in response to being reported ...you can change ""hair"" to whatever extremity-ly long body part you like."	8	644	23		"When you're cold, your RUB your FINGERS over your EXTREMITIES vigorously to warm up a bit. I'd still rather go in for a warm fire and some hot cocoa, though."	
抄	extract	You can extract her juices by inserting a few fingers.	7	647	23		"The mafia want to extract information from you. You don't say a word, so out comes the knife. They cut of your fingers until you only have a few left and then you speak."	
批	criticism	"Think of the two most famous critics, Ebert and Roeper. On their show, they compare thumbs (which are technically fingers) with each other before dispensing criticism."	7	649	23		My criticism earned me the FINGER when I COMPARED her cooking to my mother's.	
拐	kidnap	"Wrap your FINGERS around someone's MOUTH to keep them quiet, then put the KNIFE to their throat to ensure their cooperation. This is the best way to KIDNAP someone."	8	656	23		"After you beckon (#650) someone by seducing them, you kidnap them and hang them upside down (the reversed positions of seduce)."	
挑	challenge	"Here comes a new challenge, try to kill Bowser, the giant Turtle using jut on finger."	9	658	23		"You are sure to take a challenge because your victory was portended. So you stand self-confident before your foe, point a finger at him and say ""I will prevail, as was long portended!""."	
括	fasten	Teacher was always telling us to fasten our lips by pulling a zipper shut with our fingers. It always frightened me because I imagined getting my tongue stuck in the zipper.	9	661	23		"On the plane, you refuse to FASTEN your seatbelt and even go so far as to give the stewardess the finger and stick out your tongue at her. The crew comes and pins you down and forces you to FASTEN it."	
提	propose	"When a man PROPOSES to a lady, he takes her FINGER and places the ring on it JUST SO, and the moment sweeps her away."	12	665	23		"I tried to propose to my girlfriend, but the ring was too small to fit her finger. Instead of saying yes, she just uttered an annoyed sigh. So I rushed to the jeweler where he made it bigger. But now it was too big, so I rushed back to make it smaller. This spiel kept going on until the ring was finally just so. Her eyes lit up and she said yes."	
拾	pick up	I tried to PICK UP the bowling ball...but my FINGERS didn't FIT in the holes.	9	667	23		Try PICKING UP a girl by trying to FIT your FINGER in you know what... let me know how that works.	
描	sketch	"A sketch is a seedling (#234) of things to come. Before the assault, the sergeant draws a sketch of the attack with his fingers in the sand."	11	670	23		"I'm bad at drawing, so when I try to sketch the kanji for cat, you can sort of recognize it, but I don't get the curve of the ""wild dogs"" just right."	
掛	hang	"Think RPG. The wizard points his finger to the guard and the ivy he has just animated with his magic wand climbs down the wall to hang the poor guy, opening the way for the adventurers into the dungeon."	11	674	23		"3 ways you could hang something: 1) the normal way, with your finger putting something on a hook or whatever, 2) hanging from a vine the natural way, or 3) by means of the magic of the wand."	
械	contraption	"The ten commandments were heavy. So to help carry them, Moses made a wooden contraption; the ark of the covenant."	11	677	23		Think of a complex wooden contraption capable of giving you a two-handed fiesta.	
才	genius	"Spinal tap: ""Every other band's amps go to ten. But you see my extra stroke of genius - these go to eleven.""."	3	681	23		A TEN year old had a STROKE of GENIUS and wrote this joke: 何歳ですか？　　　。。。天才です！.	
材	lumber	A TREE GENIUS is a LUMBER jack. Duh.	7	683	23		"Just when the were about to turn the last tree into lumber, the Lorax (the tree-genie) jumps out and puts a stop to the whole affair."	
乃	from	FROM a pictograph of a thumbs up. That's how it also gets the primitive meaning of fist.	2	686	23		"Think Charlton Heston: ""From my cold, dead fists"". Speech given to the National Boxing Association, in response to stricter control on boxing gloves."	
及	reach out	I like to think of this as a fist with with brass knuckles because of the extra line. An old school thug reaches out to help you up but then with his other hand ( with the brass knuckles) punches you.	3	688	23		Reach out and fist someone (Do you see the person primitive?).	
史	history	I sleep in history class with my mouth tucked under my arm.	5	692	23		"History students usually going to school with a history book tucked under their arm. But now instead of a book, you have a small talking mouth that tell you about history. ""When I was young, I used to walk 5 miles everyday.....""."	
更	grow late	"It's starting to GROW LATE, so God will take the SUN, and TUCK IT UNDER HIS ARM, and walk away. In the morning, he'll bring it back, so don't worry."	7	694	23		"At nightbreak (#30) the sun rises above the floor, so it is logical that when it is growing late, the sun would rise to the ceiling. Time to pack up your things and take your belongings under your arm."	
双	pair	The animals boarding Noah's Ark all came in pairs – but Noah had to carefully check the two crotches in each pair to ensure that the animals were of different sexes and thus able to further their species after the flood.	4	697	23		Crotch to crotch is how many pairs spend their private time together. . .	
隻	vessels	"On Vessels that travel long distances, sailors often get quite lonely. They keep TURKEYS on the VESSELS, but not for use as food. The lonely sailors take turns enjoying the turkey's CROTCH."	10	699	23		"Donald Duck is a big bird that does not wear pants. It's good to use him as a mnemonic because he is a sailor, and this kanji is used to count vessels."	
獲	seize	"A pack of genetically-modified wild dogs is seized by a group of Greenpeace activists and taken onboard the Greenpeace vessel (the flower vessel, see safeguard (#700))."	16	701	23		Customs just seized a crate of poppies (flowers) detected by trained wild dogs who inspected the vessel.	
友	friend	"A good friend is always at your side. ---- I teach at a Japanese High School, and I often see chummy male students grabbing each other's crotches in a joking manner. It's still weird to me, but apparently reaching to your side and grabbing you neighbor's crotch is a great way to express friendship."	4	704	23		"Think of a sex friend (a fuck buddy if you will). The benefit of such a relationship is that there will always be a crotch by your side. (the Japanese refer to such a friend as セフレ, just as we do)."	
設	establishment	"Establishment can be attacked by words or by missiles. Writers will use words, whereas militars will use missiles."	11	708	23		"When you attack the establishment with words, it fights back with missiles."	
支	branch	Picture sliding down the branch of a tree (in this case a pine tree or any tree with needles) and getting a bunch of needles stuck in your crotch--ouch!!	4	711	23		"A special branch of the military called the Needle Crotch Unit. Their only weapon is the needle embedded in their crotches, and they're quite adept at using them."	
茎	stalk	"Suggestion: Replace ""spool"" with ""toilet paper/roll"". Reasons: (1) Toilet paper/roll usually comes on a spool. (2) Toilet paper is used to clean the soil off your crotch. Story: Just get a flower and carefully wrap some toilet paper around its stalk. Spool also appears in suspicious (#716), lightly (#717), diameter (#882), sutra (#1360)."	8	715	23		"PRIMITIVE: soiled crotch = soiled underwear. To precent anyone from picking the beautiful flower, the gardner hung soiled underwear on the stalk."	
叔	uncle	Oh come on people - say what we've all been thinking: the uncle is that creepy guy towering above a little one's crotch.	8	718	23		"Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let's make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team). You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when coaching..."	
寂	loneliness	The unmarried uncle's house is the picture of lonlieness.	11	720	23		"Four straight kanji here with 叔 in it, so let's make one story: Your UNCLE was full of loneliness (#720) (寂), and he lived by himself. He was naturally graceful (#721) (淑) in the water, and you knew he was once on the Olympic synchronized swimming team. You knew that there was something different about him, but you joined his youth team and he watched over you carefully as coach (#719) (督). It was uncomfortable, though, how your uncle (#718) often touched you just a little above the crotch (叔) when coaching..."	
爪	claw	A pictograph of Wolverine's adamantium claws.	4	727	23		"Pictograph, see book. * I prefer the primitive meaning of an eagle rather than vulture. Somehow vulture makes me think more about meat and dead corpses than claws. An eagle however immediately brings to my mind the image of an eagle plunging into a stream catching fish in his claws, or that of the great eagles rescuing Bilbo and his party in Jrr Tolkien's novel “Bilbo the Hobbit”."	
乳	milk	"A fledgling is being nursed at a zoo, it is fed milk through a small tube that is bent in the shape of a hook (so that it fits inside its beak). The fledgling soon becomes addicted to milk, giving us this very catchy mnemonic: “fledgling hooked on milk”."	8	729	23		Drinking milk not only reduces cavity (#96)'s but also strengthens nails (claws) thanks astgtciv.	
奨	exhort	It's easy to picture a LEADER that uses a BIG dog to EXHORT his people to do more.	13	732	23		"Here we have a St.Bernard exhorting the vulture to become the leader in the race against the turtle, but he can't because of the glue. see leader (#731)."	
菜	vegetable	"A vegetarian vulture is munching on a flower, perched on a tree, patiently waiting for a patch of vegetables to grow."	11	734	23		Wolverine is turning into total hippie. He said he only eats vegetables now and last time I saw him sitting in a tree with flowers in his hair.	
授	impart	"""Please accept this finger,"" you say, imparting it to your yakuza boss."	11	736	23		"This character depicts a student and teacher. The teacher imparts his knowledge on the student, pointing the way and guiding with the finger. Meanwhile, the student sits there passively accepting the tutelage of his superior."	
広	wide	The Batcave is very wide and has a lot of elbow room for Batman to do his yoga.	5	739	23		"A wide cave has a lot of ""elbow room""."	
雄	masculine	Men walk with their elbows out from their sides in a weird turkey trot when they try to appear very MASCULINE. Think of a 70's pimp walk.	12	743	23		Masculine duties are to offer your elbow to the lady by your left side and to cut the turkey on special meals.	
怠	neglect	"While standing on the pedestal at the award ceremony, the recipient heartlessly neglected to mention the people that got him there."	9	745	23		Someone you put on a pedestal will NEGLECT your heart.	
胎	womb	"The body part feminists like to put on a pedestal is the womb, especially when they hear a man complain about some responsibility. ""We give birth, so it's your duty to do so-and-so""."	9	748	23		"If any body part deserves to be put on a pedestal, it is the womb from which new life springs forth."	
会	meeting	"At the local company they have a very gory way of getting rid of incompetent personnel : they arrange a business meeting in a very special room where the walls are ... meeting. Not surprisingly the boss is never present at these meetings, he's the one who pushes the button that sets the walls in motion."	6	752	23		The only thing created in most meetings is a lot of hot air. Imagine a cloud of it rising to the roof.	
到	arrival	Http://img168.imageshack.us/img168/7731/karatesd3.jpg Just look at this image...	8	755	23		Just as we were about to climax her father arrived with a sword.	
互	mutually	The 69 position allows both parties to mutually give themselves pleasure.	4	757	23		"If you can combined your walls with another house's walls, both houses would mutually benefit, by the increase in size...."	
流	current	INFANT Moses placed in the WATER and sent down the current of the STREAM.	10	764	23		"A water-breathing infant (genetically modified?) is caught in a flood, and drifts with the current, apparently enjoying himself in the process."	
出	exit	"Suddenly, a cactus comes out of the ground with a sign that reads: exit. Now you can leave the desert! (Note: giving this primitive the meaning 'cactus' can be useful later)."	5	767	24		The exit lays between these two mountains.	
炭	charcoal	Burn enough charcoal and you'll have a mountain of ash.	9	771	24		"You get charcoal from volcano (""fire mountain"", 火山) ashes."	
盟	alliance	(re: Raichu) An undercover alliance between Japan (the sun on its flag) and Turkey (the moon on its flag) detected by a surveillance satellite dish. http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/nn20100126a3.html.	13	1450	38		"A new alliance is proclaimed at the end of a meal between officials. As a symbol of their alliance they clean up together one dish, and present it to the photographers. The clean dish under the flash lights appears very bright, and it's pretty much all you can see on the photo that appears on the next morning's newspapers, with the title ""New alliance, one bright dish!""."	
崩	crumble	Sam and Frodo were steadfast companions even as Mount Doom crumbled above them.	11	774	24		"September 11. [lol it also has 11 strokes], whoever reported this story is a loser, get alife. This is the best story on the website."	
蜜	honey	"When I think of honey, I think of a bee hive, which is a HOUSE that INVARIABLY has INSECTS."	12	776	24		A house with a lot of honey will invariably attract many insects.	
頒	partition	The PART of my HEAD where I remember the KANJI is in the kanji PARTITION.	13	783	24		"The last time I tried to partition a hard drive under Linux, I got a severe migraine that parted my head."	
容	contain	Imagine a house big enough to contain an entire valley. might want to live there. And now imagine cleaning it. . . . Maybe not . . .	10	790	24		Biodome.	
欲	longing	"Guess what? Japanese has dirty words too! (In fact, a lot of them) A sexual story is NOT inappropriate here, as this kanji is very sexual, such as in 性欲; lust. As for a story: the lack of contact with a woman's valley will leave a man LONGING for love."	11	792	24		The valley has something my life is lacking.... something I've been longing for.. peace and quiet.	
沿	run alongside	Water in a gully runs alongside the path.	8	795	24		Picture one of those idiots that run alongside the bicyclists in the Tour de France trying to give them water. Watch as the cyclist shoves the person into a gully that runs alongside the road.	
皮	pelt	A pelt is hooked on a branch. A small tent is made with a pelt and a branch planted in the ground. The mnemonic hints at the first stroke (the hanging pelt) and the hook at the end of the second stroke. This is chinese radical #107 meaning “skin”.	5	802	25		"To be honest, this is one of those cases where I have found it easier to ""just remember it"" as a radical, as it occurs so frequently: 彼（かれ him）波（なみ wave）and so on."	
披	expose	"You expose holes in a pelt by passing your fingers through them and wiggling them on the other side. The sense of the kanji here is to reveal something that was hidden, to make known, to open your heart (thus revealing it, exposing it to others), express your opinion, etc."	8	805	25		"Think of it in this vulgar way. You really want her to expose her “beaver” pelt, so you have to encourage her with your fingers to expose it."	
被	incur	If you wear a coat of fur (pelt) you are sure to incur the wrath of animal rights extremists.	10	807	25		A cloak of fur (pelt) will incur the wrath of animal lovers.	
列	file	"A line of skeletal warriors, all armed with sabers."	6	812	25		Skeleton army rank and file. Dudes made of bones carrying sabres.	
烈	ardent	"The nazis were ardent believers in the master arian race, see them marching everyone else into the oven fires, single file."	10	814	25		"The undead, marching single file, prove how ardent they are be walking across a field of flame. Fun fact, ardent used to mean to burn."	
瞬	wink	"Imagine Snoopy winking with his big eyes (and a happy smile) standing next to Woodstocks Birdhouse, woodstock being so cool that he wears little sunglasses."	18	817	25		"What a dilemna, you wore SUNGLASSES over your EYES when you went to the BIRDHOUSE so you wouldn't be recognized - but now you can't WINK at the girl you want!"	
最	utmost	"TAKE the UTMOST care when you SUN bath all DAY, or you'll get burned from your EARS to your CROTCH."	12	821	25		Do your utmost - seize(take) the day.	
職	post	Worst post in history: quality checker at the kazoo factory. Imagine the toll on your ears!	18	824	25		"Buckingham Palace guards are famous for staying at their post no matter what, even if you blow a kazoo in their ear!"	
敢	daring	Only a truly daring Japanese student would wear a spike in his ear under the gaze of the Japanese teacher taskmasters!	12	826	25		See that ear nailed over there ? It's the ear of the last person who was too daring with the taskmistress.	
買	buy	"When something catches my eye, I take out a few clams and buy before anybody else does."	12	831	25		Rules to Buying: 1. You've had your eye on it for a while. 2. You have enough shells to afford it.	
罰	penalty	"For Japanese, when the mind's eye (the sideways eye) feels guilty for something bad that the body has done, there are two penaltys to choose from. One, you can say I'm sorry. Two, you can commit suicide by sabre. Why, oh why, do so many Japanese executives commit suicide at the first sign of scandal when all the have to do is say I'm sorry to get off the hook. (on yomi: バチ, バツ)."	14	833	25		There is a 3-way masterplan for every goalkeeper to prevent a goal at penalty shootout: 1. Look directly into the eyes of the player --- 2. Confuse him by screaming senseless words --- 3. Pull out you your saber and ... (that's up to you).	
環	ring	"Together with the next kanji, the keywords spell “send back the ring”. First we have a jewel. Next we have the great eye of Sauron searching for the fellowship hiding under the many ceilings during their journey. The fourth and fifth primitives are the mouth of Gollum always mumbling “My preciousss”; and Pippin's scarf! Placement: the eye appears at the top similarly to how the Great Eye of Sauron is perched atop the Dark Tower."	17	836	25		"In conjunction with send back (#837)....... When I tried to give her the jewel ring, she eyed me, threw it to the floor, opened her mouth and tried to speak, she said nothing. She grabbed her scarf and left."	
渓	mountain stream	The Simpsons are on vacation. Homer stops to take a leak in a mountain stream but gets snatched by an eagle. Hear his scream?	11	840	25		"A husband who went fishing at the mountain stream to feed his family, fell in the rapids (we'll assume this is a large mountain stream). He is saved from the waters by a great eagle. He comes back home with nothing to feed the family, his clothes still dripping wet as he tells his wife of how he was saved by a great eagle, and of course she does not believe him. The story continues in chicken (#1947)."	
賛	approve	"Out of two potential husbands, which would you approve of? Well, the one with shells (money) of course!!!"	15	843	25		"Bush's campaign- ""John Kerry approves using taxpayers' money to support gay marriage. I don't."" ""I approve this message""."	
失	lose	"The drop falling here is the husband's toupee... he's already lost his hair once, now he's losing it again. Such is life, I suppose."	5	845	25		"Note: Heisig's stroke order is wrong. It's the same as vermilion, drop first. Homer loses/drops his wedding ring."	
蔵	storehouse	"The storehouse is overgrown with slaves. The slaves are to be sold in the store, to differentiate from a warehouse, which doesn't have the word ""store"" in it."	15	850	25		Slaves moved flowers from the storehouse in preparation for the parade.	
賢	intelligent	An intelligent man is neither slave to his crotch nor to money. But an intelligent slave will know how to use his/her crotch to make money.	16	852	25		"Every intelligent man is a slave to two things, his: 1) crotch, and 2) money."	
覧	perusal	"The slave reclines on the floor at night to watch the stars. Since that's the only thing the slave is allowed to “read”, he does so very thoroughly and diligently, hence perusal."	17	855	25		"[+scottamus] ""Please, come in and peruse this fine selection of slaves, all reclining here on the floor for your perusal. Have a look here"": http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/0/09/Slave_ship_diagram.png/440px-Slave_ship_diagram.png."	
力	power	"I always refer to the power of the KATAKANA ""KA""."	2	858	25		I have a very powerful muscle カ in my driveway!	
労	labor	Those jocks who always tried to show their muscles in the schoolhouse are now the ones out there doing manual labor jobs while we sit here and learn Japanese. Ha!	7	860	25		"At the schoolhouse, the administration develops the children's muscles by making them do manual labour."	
劣	inferiority	I have an inferiority complex because I have fewer muscles than everyone else at the gym. They all look like Macho Man Randy Savage (power) to me.	6	862	25		"I had trouble remembering the relative position of the components, so now I use this story: Even muscular men have inferiority if they have few things above their muscles (i.e., brain cells)."	
努	toil	GUY POWER!!! Body builders toiling in the gym all day....　　　　　RTK2:　ド　努力　どりょく (effort)...　Pure Group: 　奴702 　怒703.	7	865	25		"Guy + Power: To reach a position of power in the company, the average guy has to toil very hard for many years."	
協	co-	"The nurse says : “If you co-operate, that needle (syringe) in your triceps won't hurt”. Note: both co- and cooperate are meanings for this kanji."	8	872	25		Co-operation: 3 persons can have the power of ten if they co-operate.	
復	restore	"Before going all the way to the Boss in a Final Fantasy game, you should probably double back to save at a restore point."	12	875	25		The column of soldiers has to double back to restore the peace in the village they just left.	
径	diameter	Scientists recently measured the diameter of Earth by drilling a deep hole and dropping a line of thread off a humongous spool until it got to the other side.	8	882	25		"Suggestion: Replace ""spool"" with ""toilet paper/roll"". Reasons: (1) Toilet paper/roll usually comes on a spool. (2) Toilet paper is used to clean the soil off your crotch. Story: Measure the diameter of a column (maybe Nelson's Column in London?) using a roll of toilet paper. Spool also appears in stalk (#715), suspicious (#716), lightly (#717), sutra (#1360)."	
役	duty	Japanese kamikaze pilots (and the American from Dr. Strangelove) are so devoted to their duty that they go with their missiles.	7	884	25		"Imagine those poor saps in charge of nuclear silos, responsible for ICBMS, those towering column missiles. When the order comes they must decide whether to obey their concience or do their duty and damn the world to atomic annihilation."	
徴	indications	"If you see a column of kings being marched up the mountain under a taskmaster's whip... indications are, there has been a coup."	14	887	25		All indications are that the taskmaster's son is going to be king of the mountain soon …　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　チョウ 象徴　しょうちょう(symbol)…　　　　Pure Group:　懲888.	
微	delicate	The Column of 300 spartans were in a delicate situation. They had travelled in one line (using only their legs) to the mountain pass to face the fierce Persian task master.	13	889	25		"Telling your taskmistress (wife) why you are going mountain climbing without her is a delicate situation... ""For one thing you have such beautiful legs and I don't want to risk injuring them honey""...　　　　　　RTK2:　ビ　微笑　びしょう(smile)　""delicate laugh""."	
稿	draft	"The first DRAFT of catcher in the rye was actually called ""catcher in the TALL WHEAT""...good thing they changed it. I read it in 高校."	15	892	26		Aliens often draft their plans for invasion by cutting designs among the tall wheat.	
程	extent	"The extent to which some people will go to create 'wheat displays', or as some call them 'crop circles', is truly amazing."	12	894	26		"The wheat crop has come in, and the mouth of the king is gobbling it all up. Everyone is waiting to see... to what extent will the king manage to eat it this year?"	
愁	distress	"In AUTUMN, the farmer's HEART is in DISTRESS as to if he has enough crops. Even better, the farmer will experience great DISTRESS in his HEART if his WHEAT catches FIRE!"	13	901	26		"Here we have distressed (think ""gloomy"") people with ""seasonal mood disorder"" during the autumn season. Hence ""autumn heart"" is distressed (gloomy)."	
秘	secret	The prize at the bottom of a cereal box is invariably a secret decoder ring.	10	904	26		A young couple meets in secret in the wheat field because their families are enemies. They cross their hearts and swear eternal - even if secret - love. Do not confuse with secrecy (#775).	
香	incense	"If you focus the suns though a magnifying glass on to the bottom of a stalk of wheat it will start to smoulder and burn like a stick of incense. The weird thing is that it burns from the bottom upwards, hanging in the air as if my magic. Try it and see!"	9	911	26		When the sun burns the wheat a smell of incense remains in the air.	
秀	excel	"You spend three hours putting all of your wheat sale transaction records into Microsoft Excel, when suddenly it crashes, so you put your fist through the monitor."	7	914	26		"A soviet-era poster for the 5-year plan shouts ""Excel"" and shows a fist clenching a sheaf of wheat. Wheat/Fist."	
誘	entice	"Word and Excel somehow manage to entice people to use them, despite their plethora of bugs."	14	916	26		Think of the smooth talker who EXCELS at using WORDS to entice women (including married women if it makes it easier to remember).	
米	rice	Stroke order: I like to think of the first two strokes as “chop sticks” with which one eats the rice. The rest then is the “tree” meaning “plant” in this contexct. also: USA.	6	919	26		"Two drops of rice in a tree, simple."	
粘	sticky	"This is another way of fortune telling -- throw sticky rice against the wall, and look for the message in whatever sticks."	11	921	26		CONDI RICE was told by the FORTUNE TELLER that she will get STICKY...	
迷	astray	"The road that the USA is heading down is, well... let's just say that they're astray..."	9	924	26		"If you go astray, just follow the rice you dropped along the road to find your way back."	
糧	provisions	"Imagine Japanese army provisions like obentou boxes, always containing the same quantity of rice. (thanks darg_sama, emphasizing quantity and the nuance of food ""rations"", ""food supply"": the kanji also appears in ""military provisions"" and ""army rice"")."	18	926	26		All Japanese provisions contain a certain quantity of rice... they eat it with just about every meal!	
数	number	"Young taskmaster is learning numbers by watching women haul sacks of rice past him. ""One... two... four! No, wrong! Go back, go back!""."	13	929	26		Women toil in the rice fields carrying heavy sacks of rice to be numbered and counted by the taskmaster.	
類	sort	"Note this character means sort in the sense of what kind, I believe a better keyword would be ""variety"" and this character does appear in some dictionaries with the primary meaning as variety, my story: I'm in a Chinese restaurant and the waiter says ""What sort of rice would you like with your dog head?""."	18	931	26		"Condi Rice is the SORT of person that would give HEADaches to a BIG DOG.....This story has been edited because of people reporting it. I like it better without ""aches"", but whatever works for you!"	
求	request	"Enemy: ""Any final requests?"" // MacGyver: ""Just an arrowhead and some grains of rice."" (MacGyver then throws the grains of rice at the enemy and uses the arrowhead to cut his hands free from the rope.)."	7	934	26		Robin Hood holds his rich victim at arrowpoint and kindly requests that he hands over his grains of rice.	
竹	bamboo	Pandas like to eat bamboo. I'm using panda as the primitive name when it fits the story. ^__^.	6	937	26		"Two reclining victims impaled on bamboo spheres...　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　チク　松竹梅　しょうちくばい(pine, bamboo, plum)."	
筒	cylinder	"Seriously, all BAMBOO sticks look the SAME, just long CYLINDERS. Should the story be more complicated?"	12	944	26		"Fully-grown bamboo consists of a number of cylinder-like sections, all exactly the same."	
算	calculate	"Before the time of digital calculators, people used old school calculators made of bamboo (abacus). It's not as easy as a calculator, but you don't need any batteries either. All you need are your eyes and your two hands."	14	946	26		"Tip : you may see this as an Abacus, which is used to calculate. This particular ancient chinese Abacus has eyeballs in place of beads, and its frame is made of bamboo. You'd be amazed at how fast people can calculate with this, especially if they can use both hands at once to move the ... eyeballs."	
簿	register	"Note : the keyword is not a verb, think of a record book. This acupuncturist who uses bamboo in place of flowers to dilute water into his patients (see frame 227), managed somehow to appear on the register of acupuncturists. Chances are, he won't stay on the register for long. My image is close to that of gorgon's story."	19	949	26		This doctor dilutes (see 227) his patients with bamboo stalks rather than the flowers of a standard diluting acupuncturist hence he needs to be on the Bamboo Accumpunturist Diltuers (BAD) register. Pumping that much water into a body can be dangerous; see the huge bamboo stems with gallons of water sloshing in and out of the patient.	
佐	assistant	"Mr T's assistant is on his left. Why? Because Mr T has this bad habit of suddenly extending his right arm (what with all the boxing that he did), and his assistant got inadvertently punched in the face more than once (ouch). So now his assistant is always to his left side, much safer - ""Stay on my left, foo!""."	7	952	27		"On your right is your ""right-hand man"" that you credit for all your success....on the left...... is your assistant who does all the grunt work and gets no credit for anything..."	
住	dwell	When Mr T shows people round his dwelling he takes a big candlestick (with a candle in it!) so that the light shows off his collection of bling bling jewellery.	7	954	27		"Mister T dwells in a big brass candlestick, the flame of which serves as a beacon for the boats in the nearby harbour. Sometimes in the morning, Mister T has to clear the wax that has landed and solidified in front of the door."	
体	body	"Mister T works out his body (body-building), using two piles of books (i.e. an exercise that can be done at home with two chairs, similar to push-ups but working mostly the shoulders, trapezius and triceps)."	7	957	27		Mr. T works out his body then rips a book apart to test is body. His favorite to destroy is Dianetics.	
件	affair	"Note: this kanji refers to event or case. Current Affair headline: Mr. T has affair with cow. ""It's only animal 'man' enough for me""."	6	959	27		"I'm having a hard time keep straight just which animal Mr. T is having an affair with. chamcham's story made me realize that Mr. T is not having an ""affair"", he's having an ""heifair."" Get it?"	
伏	prostrated	"Don't need a silly story for this one: prostration is when a person puts themselves in a low position like a dog, as an extreme gesture of humility."	6	962	27		"Mr T has beaten up the chihuahua, who lies prostrated in front of him. ""Now,"" Mr T says, ""I quiero some Taco Bell!""."	
伯	chief	"If Mr T was white I am sure he would have been commander in chief of the USA, he just the sort of clown Americans love to vote for. (NB: I tried with the indian chief motif but kept adding feathers by mistake)."	7	967	27		"Mr T was originally supposed to be the chief of the A-Team, but then the producers realized that America didn't want to see a Black guy as the chief of a prime-time TV show. So here, we see Mr T doing a bunch of cocaine, and then spreading it all over his face to look white, and trying out for the part of Hannibal. The directors were so impressed that they let him stunt double for Hannibal in a few episodes. OR, Mr T chiefin' on some crack cocaine. You make the call."	
信	faith	"Mr. T has faith in the Word of God. (Image: Mr. T kneeling and prayering in front of a bible. ""Pity me, fool."")."	9	969	27		Faith is believing that a person will be true to his word.	
例	example	"Mr T shows the example to the kids, and stays in the file (at supermarket, ...). “I pity da foo who does not follow my example !”."	8	972	27		"When Mr. T. wants to make an example out of a group of people, he lines them up all single file and knocks them all out with one punch!"	
倣	emulate	"Mr T downloads an emulator so that he can play his favorite game, Pokemon. He plays for a different reason, though - he hates to see them poor little foos in the ball so he spends his entire time setting them free."	10	979	27		"The black slave who was set free (#496) decides to emulate Mr. T, his role model. He uses his compass to head to Cali to start anew."	
僧	Buddhist priest	"Mr. T and the artist formerly known as Prince, who by the way is a buddhist, want to form a new heavy metal band. Instead of ""Judas Priest"" they will be called ""Buddhist Priest""."	13	982	27		"While a waiter at the Buddhist temple (see FRAME 976), Mr T increases in wisdom and becomes a Buddhist priest."	
侮	scorn	Mr. T has scorn for every fool.	8	989	27		People full of scorn tend to hate every person (including themselves).	
倍	double	Mr. T keeps his double muzzled ... he wants all the glory.	10	992	27		"Mr T, like many holywood stars, has a butt double who is used only for scenes where T's buttocks are exposed (he has issues with bearing his behind). The butt double has no speaking parts - he is muzzled. Of course T himself isn't he's rambling on about pity and foo."	
符	token	"I dropped my token down the drain, so I used a piece of bamboo with chewing gum on the end to retrieve it."	11	1001	27		"At the arcade, Mr. T adheres a bamboo rod to his token so that he can put it in the machine and pull it out repeatedly."	
三	three	One + two = three.	3	3	1		"THREE measurements define the female shape: BUST, WAIST, and HIPS. Waist is the smallest, and for most women the HIPS are wider than the chest."	
任	responsibility	It is always Mr. T's responsibility to be the porter and carry around everyone's luggage because he's so strong.	6	1003	27		"In pregnancy (#507), the woman was the porter for the first nine months. Now, as a new father, Mr.T is assuming all the RESPONSIBILITIES that comes with it. Can't you just see him here as the new porter, wearing a harness with a his little dude (who already has a little matching mohawk)?"	
六	six	"Indicating 6 parts of the human body: head, body, 2 arms, 2 legs."	4	6	1		Six-Six-SIX ((666)) Mark of the Beast!! Imagine that dapper old beastly fellow summoning his top hat to himself. See it scamper over to him on a little pair of beastly legs.	
袋	sack	A sack is an easy substitute for a garment.	11	1006	27		"A worker who was recently sacked from his job, is wearing a sack of potatoes as a substitute garment (naked otherwise), in some kind of protest. The kanji is close to frame 1547 ""bag"", and although the later really refers to a ""straw sack"", I use the image of a sack of potatoes here, and that of a ""plastic bag"" for frame 1547. The keywords would have been better swapped in my opinion, but the relevancy is not so important at this point (see notes of Lesson 31 in the book)."	
化	change	"Referring to a scene in the movie ""The Matrix"" where a girl bends a spoon with the power of her mind alone, I imagine Mister T who changes a spoon into something else (maybe the waiter forgot to bring knives or forks). Note: as a primitive, it can help to use the image of ""spare change"", this can help you keep it distinct from other similar kanji such as ""shape"" or ""turn into""."	4	1008	27		Mr. T reaches into his wallet for some spare change but it has all changed into spoons.	
花	flower	The flowers change with the seasons.	7	1009	27		"The flower is the essence of transience. So, the conceptual flower involves both the concept of flower plus change."	
傾	lean	Mr. T gave a girl some change to lean over and give him head.	13	1011	27		Leaning over changes the position of the head...　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ケイ　傾向　けいこう(tendency).	
月	month	A month is longer than a day.	4	13	1		"Am I the only one who sees this as someone sticking their ass in the air ""mooning"" someone (two cheeks of the butt and the legs coming off of it)? The Moon meaning connects well to the meaning of month, considering that months were traditionally measured by the phases of the moon. Also, the mooning ""ass"" part of it connects well to Hesig's seemingly unconnected ""flesh"" or ""part of the body"" meaning (when used in primitive form)."	
俊	sagacious	"The entire town wants to get rid of legal prostitutes, but the sagacious Mr T realizes that they are a benefit to the economy and society. So he lets the sa-geishas stay."	9	1014	27		"(re: sweetneet) Since he is not very sagacious, Mr. T failed his driver's license and now needs to resort to his walking legs to get around."	
古	old	Tombstone and cross on an old man's grave.	5	16	2		You get OLD fast if you have ten open mouths to feed.	
久	long time	Note: this is the ひさ in ひさしぶり . Long time no see mummy! (A bound up person).	3	1016	27		"This is a picture of a person bowing ""long time no see!""."	
朋	companion	My companion and I are like two moons side by side.	8	19	2		"Under the twin moons of Tatooine, Luke had no COMPANION."	
内	inside	"Mr. T's new belt is huge! When he's inside it, his feet no longer touch the ground!"	4	1019	27		"How is a person ever supposed to get inside that girl when she's wearing such a huge chastity belt? I guess that's kinda the point, eh?"	
柄	design	Half Way!!!!	9	1021	27		"This is a ""design"" as in a ""pattern"", not a verb as in ""to design"". The tree grain design was too expensive for the third class airline to use for the panelling. They just painted it."	
肉	meat	Here we are looking at an x-ray of a cannibal whose insides are full on people-meat.	6	1022	27		"A person's inside - fleshy, raw, pink, meat."	
呂	spine	Spine connects head and body.	7	24	2		The spine goes from one opening mouth/opening (mouth/face) to another mouth/opening (genitals). Just think of these openings being enlarged to represent the head and the body. The bottom is bigger because the body is bigger than the face.	
早	early	"The sun up is early, well before ten."	6	26	2		An early sun-flower looks like a miniature sun perched on a needlelike stems.	
傘	umbrella	"There are two assembly lines at the umbrella factory. One is responsible for making the top of the umbrella, and the other for making the handle. The two lines cross at the end, where one man tries frantically to jam the sets of parts together."	12	1026	27		FOUR PERSONS can fit under this UMBRELLA if they are thin as a NEEDLE.	
胃	stomach	The rice field is harvested once a month to get food for our stomach.	9	29	2		"The stomach is the part of the body that digests food (which, in Japan, is mainly rice)."	
似	similar	Mr. T finds that living by means of dragging a plow is similar to slavery.	7	1029	28		A Mr T impersonator is becoming similarer (more like) by means of plastic surgery. The process is painful and his face is all bound up in bandages as the surgery heals.	
瓦	tile	"Horror scene: Hanging from the ceiling, a plough and fishhook dripping with blood down onto the tiled bathroom floor."	5	1031	28		"[true stroke order] First draw T for Tile, which then becomes I. Then draw an 'L' fish hook with a dash in the middle to make a mediocre 'e' that few can see.//ガ wa3 와 (wa)."	
瓶	flower pot	A flower pot that has been dropped on the floor is like a puzzle of ceramic tiles to glue together.	11	1032	28		To solve this puzzle all you need is to put the flower pot on top of the proper tile. (cue secrets tune from Zelda).	
凸	convex	"When I get vexed, I give people the middle finger."	5	34	2		Convex has a convex shape.	
自	oneself	"Faced with his clone, our hero valiantly cut a mark on his forehead right above his eye so that his comrades could tell his true oneself from the enemy."	6	36	3		"To use an eyedropper by oneself, aim from above to put a drop into the eye."	
年	year	A horse wears a pair of sunglasses with one lens popped out after a particularly raucous celebration to ring in the New Year.	6	1036	28		"A horse wears a monocle for New Years to appear dignified for the year of the horse. ――one lens = monocle, you will encounter this again in kanji like descend (#1308)."	
中	in	Pocky goes in the mouth.	4	39	3		My GF lets me come in her mouth (pictogram).	
塚	hillock	There's already King of the Hill. This is Queen of the Hillock. It's Ms. Piggy sitting on top of a mound of soil in her crown.	12	1039	28		The crowned sow (we met her in overpowering) is standing atop her little mound of earth - hillock - the undisputed champeen of all the pigsty.	
弊	abuse	The Bush administration taskmasters hid their abuse of power by shredding documents as fast as they could using both hands....　　　　　RTK2: 　ヘイ　弊害　へいがい(abuse)...　　　Pure Group:　幣1041.	15	1041	28		"You’ve heard of Edward Scissor hands? Well this is Medward Shredder Hands. Instead of nicely trimming your shrubs, he uses his TWO SHREDDER equipped HANDS to ABUSE your plants by shredding them into wood chips."	
喚	yell	Think yelp when you hear yell to help dinstinguish this from shout (1508). I think of the sounds that would come from the mouths of the 4 dogs if they were bound up together. I'm imagining lots of yelping.	12	1042	28		"Yell? You mean, Old Yeller. Here, we see four St Bernard dogs all yelling for a chance to play a part in Old Yeller. They're so loud that you have to bound them, and their mouths, up."	
融	dissolve	"I have created the element ""old camera"" out of the left side of the kanji: from the subject's point of view, the light is captured by one mouth (the lens). The photographer is under a big hood, we only see his legs, and he is holding a spike in his right hand, which is the shutter release. Now, at the time the photographer takes the photo, a little insect is flying near the flash. The flash is so powerful that the insect is burnt and dissolves in the air."	16	1044	28		"I've seen this crazy thing with only one mouth that can dissolve up to 4 nails and an insect at the same time. Sweet! (It's a venus flytrap, btw)."	
施	alms	"Under their banner, volunteers are requesting alms for scorpion sting victims."	9	1045	29		"""ALMS for the poor"" cries the beggar under his tattered BANNER. An evil bastard instead drops a SCORPION into his begging bowl."	
博	Dr.	Ten specialties grants you the title of Dr. with a dot.	12	47	3		"Watch for doctor (#1694), the sooner the better! In fact this kanji refers to someone well ""learned"", with extensive knowledge. This could apply to any kind of field. The kanji 医 (""doctor"") is directly related to medicine. I would suggest to take away completely the idea of medicine here, and use a popular character whose name includes the keyword such as ""Dr. Who"", ""Dr. Jekyll"", even ""Dr. Dobb's"" if you're into programming."	
上	above	A magic wand standing on above the floor.	3	49	3		"Above all else, be grounded if you are going to practice augury (#2103)卜. You could turn yourself into a トoad...　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ジョウ　以上　いじょう(above)　　　　ショウ　上人　しょうにん(saint)."	
勿	not	This kanji is NOT a piglett.	4	1049	29		"The butcher is standing over the piglet. ""This is a piglet...(cuts of head)...NOT!""."	
朝	morning	There is mist as the moon fades away in the morning.	12	52	3		"Morning has come ""ten"" hours ""early""!!! The ""moon"" is still in the sky!"	
賜	grant	A grant is easy money.	15	1052	29		"Do you want free shells from the government? It's easy with my new book, ""How to Get a Free Grant from the Government!"" Call today!"	
尼	nun	"Red cross nuns sit in a tent under the red cross flag, spooning out food to the hungry."	5	1054	29		A nun sits in protests under an American flag.	
泥	mud	TV gets weirder and weirder... Now they're doing mud wrestling shows with nuns splashing around in the water. What will they think of next?	8	1055	29		"Water monks live in a den, but water nuns live in the MUD."	
履	footgear	"NOTE: The most common use is in はく, meaning to put on footgear, rather than actual footgear itself. STORY: You are asleep in camp when you are woken up with news that the FLAG has fallen to the enemy. You quickly PUT ON YOUR FOOTGEAR and run off to RESTORE the FLAG."	15	1057	29		You should never use a flag as a shoeshine cloth to restore your footgear.	
元	beginning	In the beginning were just two who walked on human legs.	4	59	4		"In the beginning God created woman, and God asked her how she liked his work. Woman replied, ""Well, you know how I have two eyes, two arms, two legs... it seems redundant to have three breasts. It would look more symmetrical with two."" God nodded, and the middle breast fell off... and it was good. Woman picked up the breast and said, ""Thank you, God! But what do I do with this useless boob?"" And God created man. That's why the women today only have two boobs to match their two human legs."	
握	grip	Fingers gripping the roof as your about to fall to your death. Think of an action scene in some movie.	12	1059	29		"(This is the にぎ of sushi). A sushi chef climaxes into a rice ball, wraps it in an American flag, and grips is firm with his fingers to form the ""Fuck You America Onigiri.""."	
凡	mediocre	A drop of breeze is naught but a mediocre wind.	3	62	4		Is there anything as mediocre as a drop of piss in the wind?	
堀	ditch	"(See dig (#1061)). When soil finally yielded thanks to your digging efforts, what you have is a ditch."	11	1062	29		"Ditch / trench. The yielding army abandons it's patch of soil, leaving behind a landscape of ditchs and trenches. Trench warfare."	
句	phrase	Some Japanese phrases are difficult to wrap your mouth around.	5	65	4		A bound mouth cannot utter a single phrase.	
層	stratum	"The strata have piled up in an ever increasing pile of dirt. As the geologists go down the rocks, they flag each stratum with the name of the corresponding era."	14	1065	29		Archaeologists at a dig site place small flags marking layers or strata of rock. Each of these layers was formerly the top layer. (This is not increase! Hseige keeps messing up).	
旬	decameron	Hesig should be BOUND for a DAY (or maybe 10 days - a decameron) for calling this Kanji DECAMERON. See martyrdom (#809).	6	67	4		"If you bind up ten days, you get a decameron."	
漏	leak	"WATER always LEAKED in the spot left by the FLAG planted in the roof everytime it RAINED. Not too hard to picture a hole left in the ceiling from a flag, now leaking water."	14	1068	29		Mark the holes where rain water can leak through with little flags.	
首	neck	"The V shape is your neck on top of your collar bone, or the straight line. Yourself, or the rest of your body is below that!"	9	70	4		The mooses neck supports it's big horns and long nose.	
乱	riot	The riot police broke up the riot by dragging the rioters away by their tongues with fishooks.	7	72	5		A tongue with a hook can cause a riot.	
沢	swamp	"You're hiding from the enemy underwater in a swamp. To breathe, you have your shakuhachi flute poking up through the surface of the water."	7	1072	29		Sirens in the swamp play eerie music on their shakuhachi flutes to lure you in - you follow the enchanting music then its too late as you get trapped in the swamp!	
真	true	A compass is a tool with a needle on top that points to true north.	10	75	5		Ten tools are all a true craftsman needs.	
昼	daytime	"Roosters in Japan are very civilised, they play the shakuhachi at nightbreak to signify the beginning of daytime."	9	1075	29		"In a Zelda game, you can warp to the daytime if you play your shakuhachi to bring about nightbreak... or your ocarina if you don't have a shakuhachi."	
戸	door	"Traditional Japanese storefront doors have several flags, known as ""noren,"" hanging down from a curtain rod in front of them. I see this as a pseudo-pictograph, and use the horizontal line across the top to represent the curtain rod, since noren don't usually hang from the ceiling."	4	1076	29		"A Japanese door has a noren, a flag hanging from a rod. (I give this primitive the meaning of a noren-covered door)."	
房	tassel	Explanation here: http://forum.koohii.com/viewtopic.php?pid=14684#p14684.	8	1078	29		"When you graduate from a school, after they gave you your tassel, they shove you to the door and give you a compass saying ""Sayonara & Good Luck out there!"" (ボウ)."	
扇	fan	"It's insanely hot today! I'm standing in the doorway, fanning myself with feathers."	10	1079	29		I am a fan of the Doors but I also like the Wings. I have a fan that I take to rock concerts with the picture of each band on the sides.	
戻	re-	The St. Bernard dog whining at the door of his master’s house in order to re-enter / re-turn inside.	7	1081	29		"Think about hachiko, the dog waiting at the door of the station, waiting for his master to re-turn."	
刀	sword	"This SWORD is so sharp, it can cut the top part of カ off in カタナ."	2	83	5		If you look really close this kanji looks like a person bending over touching the ground Waiting for someone to put there sword in his ass!	
顧	look back	"I was EMPLOYED to give HEAD...when I look back, maybe that was not a wise career move."	21	1084	29		The people we employ are always turning their heads to look back. They don't want to be caught playing solitare on company time.	
召	seduce	"A man is easily seduced by a mouth to his ""sword.""."	5	86	5		To seduce is to make a sword of one's mouth.	
示	show	"A boy made an altar, but he's afraid to show it to God because he thinks it's two little."	5	1086	30		"""I'll SHOW you mine if you show me yours!"", she said. I did & she scoffed because it was TWO LITTLE."	
祥	auspicious	"Bringing a sheep to sacrifice on the altar was a sign of an auspicious life. The poor could only afford a pigeon, the more auspicious an expensive sheep for an offering."	10	1088	30		"On this ewe-spicious occasion, you sacrifice a sheep at the altar. —— Sorry, but I really need more than generic altar sacrifices to connect keywords to stories. Sometimes an egregious pun is the only way."	
祝	celebrate	"It's a Bar Mitzvah. At the altar, the teenager is singing in his awful, mid-puberty voice. We'll all celebrate when that part is over!"	9	1089	30		When Japanese people turn 20 they usually visit the altar at their local shrine and celebrate no longer being a teenager.	
祉	welfare	"And in front of every altar, she stopped to pray for the welfare of the others."	8	1091	30		Religious Republicans regularly go to the altar to pray for a stop to welfare.	
社	company	When you enter a Japanese company it's like you join a cult... your workdesk becomes your altar and you worship the very soil the office is built on.	7	1092	30		"Some Japanese companies, including Toyota, have a Shinto shrine on their grounds to bring luck and prosperity to the company and its employees."	
頂	place on the head	If I put a street sign on my head what do I get ? A place on the head !	11	94	5		"NAILS - place directly on the forehead, NAILS - place directly on the forehead, NAILS - place directly on the forehead, 　　　The HEAD ON commercial nails it into your head......"	
孔	cavity	The child's arms flailed around at the sight of the hooked tool the dentist was going to use to fill his cavity.	4	96	6		"I warned him about cavities, but the child is still hooked on sweets."	
慰	consolation	A military officer must offer consolation to the hearts of the families of his fallen men.	15	1096	30		"This Kanji appears in the word 慰安婦 いあんふ, which was what the infamous WW II ""comfort women"" were called in Japanese. The story goes something like this: As a way of providing consolation to battle-weary, heartsick military officers and soldiers, the Japanese set up comfort stations (brothels) for their servicemen. (Just to be clear: this is not an endorsement of the practice, just a way to remember the Kanji.)."	
好	fond	A woman is fond of her child.	6	99	6		"Jane Fonda carrying a Vietnamese child. Pro-war protesters hold signs, ""I'm not fonda Jane!""...　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　コウ　好評　こうひょう(favorable criticism)."	
襟	collar	"A collar is the part of your cloak that, if tightened too tight, will prohibit breathing."	18	1099	30		Collars are prohibited from wizarding cloaks. Blood purists say they're too muggle.	
崇	adore	"In ancient Greece, it was the religion of the time to adore the gods who live on Mount Olympus."	11	1101	30		I would adore the religious people if they just went and threw themselves off a mountain top.	
祭	ritual	A ritual such as a circumcision: a small piece of flesh from the crotch is left on the altar.	11	1102	30		There are many famous penis matsuris(festivals) in Japan. The rituals of these festivals involve placing the flesh of the crotch on an altar.	
克	overcome	Ten elder brothers can overcome anything.	7	104	6		A teenager addicted to heroine must overcome the needle.	
由	wherefore	"""Wherefore art thou, Sprouteo?"" (Juliet has fallen in love with a brussel sprout) (OR: A brussel sprout has fallen from Juliet's dinner plate and rolled off)."	5	1105	30		"""Cogito ergo sum."" Wherefore is a bad choice here for two reasons. For one, it's often mistranslated as ""where"" when in fact it's an urge to know a cause or reason; and two, because this kanji represents the reason, not the urge. [A thought sprouts from my brain. I think, therefore I am.]."	
大	large	A person stretching their arms and legs to look large and scare a bear away.	3	107	7		Think of a large St. Bernard dog with his paws all stretched out.	
夕	evening	"The evening is young, the moon is not full."	3	109	7		"In the evening, I try my best to remember the katakana symbol for ""TA"" (ie. ""ta ta!"")."	
宙	mid-air	"Jack's beanstalk sprouted up, pushed at the roof and lifted the house so that it hangs in mid-air suspended on the SPROUT."	8	1109	30		"Hahaha, the image of walking into a house and finding a sea of brussel sprouts floating mid-air is enough for me to remember. Maybe there's a magician in the kitchen shouting a reassuring ""Don't mind the sprouts!""."	
名	name	"In the evening, when it becomes dark, open your mouth to say your name so that people can recognise you."	6	112	7		"In the evening, her sweet mouth whispered my name."	
軸	axis	The Germans manufactured so many cars during World War II that it was almost as if they were sprouting from the factories of the Axis.	12	1112	30		"An absurd image, but what the heck - worked for me. Imagine a car going across a plain at a fast speed. Suddenly a single sprout (the only one to be seen) gets stuck to the car's wheels, causing the car to fly around its axis."	
押	push	"Push the roots down, instead of plucking the seedling."	8	1114	30		"Use your fingers to make sure the roots of your plant are deep underground by pushing them down, down, down."	
岬	headland	"A headland is a mountain that is firmly rooted despite being surrounded on 3 sides by water. (Just like your head is a mountain surrounded by air on 3 sides, a headland!)."	8	1115	30		"Headlands are natural forts; in fact, once men build castles on them, they become armoured mountains. (Gibralter, for example, is basically an armoured mountain)."	
砂	sand	"Here's how I remember that stone is on the left. This is because sand starts as stones, and only later they become few."	9	117	7		"In good SAND, stones are few, if any."	
伸	expand	Here we see Mr. T. expanding his gang with some trained fighter monkeys.	7	1118	30		"Mr. T wants to show you the incredible expanding monkey trick. He grabs a monkey by the tail and neck, stretches him out a few times, then blows him up like a balloon. The monkey EXPANDs until it pops. Haha, sucka monkey, I pity you foo."	
太	plump	A large person with a big drop of sweat dripping off of him because he is so plump.	4	120	7		"Fat(""plump"") men always have small penises.....the kanji is a combination of ""large"" with a drop(representing the small penis between his legs)."	
臭	stinking	The ST. BERNARD DOG lifted his large NOSE high in the air to find out where the stinking smell comes from.	9	122	7		"When I is big, Ego stinking."	
菓	candy	"This candy is made in the shape of a flower, each petal with the taste of a different fruit."	11	1122	30		Candy is coloured like flowers and flavoured like fruit.	
厚	thick	"In Sparta we throw our Children over a Cliff. Under the Sun, they fight other Children. In the end, if they survive, they sure have thick skin."	9	125	7		The thick cliff walls protected the children from the sun.	
斤	ax	Errata: stroke order in 4th edition is wrong. Top stroke is first.	4	1125	31		"The axe-wielding maniac nails a poor victim, right under a cliff. Blood everywhere! (thanks scottamus!)."	
析	chop	We chop down trees with axes to analyze their rings.	8	1126	31		Wood + axe = chop? how much more simple can it get?	
祈	pray	"Religious freedom has not always been respected throughout history, and nobody knew how to force religion on an indigenous people like the Spanish missionaries. They posted conquistadors at either side of the altars at the local missions, and if anybody refused to pray, they would get the axe."	8	1128	31		"A warrior prays for victory before the battle. He kneels at the altar, his battle axe at the ready."	
水	water	"The kanji for water is an abstract primitive itself, so unless one is willing to break down its etymological development, it should just simply be memorized by strokes; constructing a story is not necessarily useful unless it strongly denotes its shape (I find that Heisig's story doesn't do this)."	4	130	8		"For those having issues with this* ""A 7K foot pool of water"" Notice it looks like a 7, and a K. Might have to practice writing it a few times."	
哲	philosophy	"A two-hour lesson of philosophy in high school. All the students, bored to death, are folding sheets of paper into planes, love notes or whatever, while the mouth of the teacher is talking about Platon, Kierkegaard and many other notorious philosophers."	10	1131	31		"I fold my mouth, therefore I am."	
泉	spring	"White is a symbol of purety, so white water is pure water, the precise definition of spring water."	9	133	8		"Perhaps the most common appearance of this kanji is in the word 温泉 (おんせん, onsen), a Japanese hot spring. The kanji is an excellent image of someone enjoying a Japanese hot spring: a little white towel on top, water below. (This helps keep all associations: spring, little and onsen)."	
誓	vow	"This Japanese couple wrote the vows that they had made to each other onto a piece of paper and then folded it into an origami, and put it somewhere in their appartment. To everybody else it is an origami, but to them it is also a symbol of their vows. -- ""the folded words are vows"". Note : in this story and a few others I use the image of an origami for the primitive ""fold""."	14	1133	31		A Japanese wedding tradition is to present each other with origami cranes with their vows written on the BOTTOM.	
泳	swim	With that much WATER (2 actually) you would need to swim for an ETERNITY.	8	136	8		"If you don't know how to swim, you'll be in that water for eternity."	
断	severance	"[Based on fuaburisu's] A man puts some rice on a fishhook as bait, but catches a fish so strong, he needs to take out his axe and sever the line lest he be dragged into the depths."	11	1136	31		"When you get the ax at work, use your severance pay to buy fishhooks and rice. At least that way you can eat sushi."	
斥	reject	The kids at school used to reject me.. Made me feel really bad till I brought my axe to school. See the drop of blood on it?	5	1138	31		"The quality expectations are very high in our axe manufacturing facility. If there's one drop of rust on any axe, it gets rejected."	
訴	accusation	I strongly reject the accusation implicit in your words.	12	1139	31		Words that make you feel rejected.	
潮	tide	"The morning tide is basically, well, WATER in the MORNING."	15	141	8		"This is not the eventide, but the water of the morning tide."	
作	make	"Mr T.'s favorite magazine is Make. He loves to make things. But he's a purist: he only uses saws, no power tools."	7	1142	31		"When the A-Team crash lands on a deserted island, Mr. T salvages a saw from the wreckage and says, ""I don't know about y'all foos, but I'm gonna make a raft.""."	
消	extinguish	"To extinguish a SPARK, you need WATER."	10	144	8		You need a few drops of water to extinguish the candle.	
河	river	A river CAN exist only if there is WATER.	8	146	8		"I kept confusing this with stream. My Japanese friend said that to him this is for an artificial river. Looking at kanji compounds with this there are two that struck me: One is the Yellow River in China (黄河), and the other is the Milky Way (銀河). Now I either think of the Little Engine that could dragging a bunch of stuff down a river in China and polluting it (so it turned yellow) or I see the Little Engine that Could flying across the sky making the Milky Way."	
急	hurry	"She was always bound to a broom, her heart pounding in a hurry to finish before she was punished for being slow."	9	1146	31		Fantasia: Bound up brooms out of control send Mickey's heart racing--he has to hurry and figure out how to stop them before the magician returns!	
測	fathom	A fathom is the unit you use when making rules about water's depth.	12	149	8		You can't fathom how deep this water is. Perhaps you should use a ruler to measure it?	
浸	immersed	"The French maid draws a bath for her amorous master, but slips and falls in - getting immersed. (thanks to Nukemarine for the French maid image!)."	10	1149	31		"After being hit in the head with the broom, the condom salesman IMMERSED his head in some water."	
寝	lie down	"After work, the French maid goes home and lies down with a turtle. Turtle? Well, he's sloooow and always hard... (thanks to Nukemarine and Wakela!)."	13	1150	31		"After being hit on the head encroach (#1148), the condom salesman goes back to his house to lie down. He hasn't made a single sale today, so he doesn't have enough money to buy a pillow. He lies down on his pet turtle and cries himself to sleep."	
掃	sweep	"Whether I SWEEP something away with my FINGERS or my BROOM, I should always wear my APRON."	11	1152	31		"FINGERS of the HOUSEWIFE (in itself, holding a BROOM, with an APRON) busily SWEEP the floor."	
垣	hedge	"Before the Great Wall of China, there was a dirt hedge that spanned across."	9	154	8		The HEDGE of roses growing from the castle grounds fully spanned the castle walls.	
浄	clean	Bottled water marketers contend to make their version of tap water sound the cleanest.	9	1155	31		The water contends against the dirt in the ultimate battle for cleaninless.	
涯	horizon	Try to reverse Heisig's story in this Kanji: imagine being trapped in one of those prison towers on an ivy cladcliff like in the movies. From your prison ontop the ivy clad cliff all you can see in the distant horizon is nothing but water.	11	157	8		"From the water, I can see the ivy-clad-cliffs on the horizon."	
唐	T'ang	"Two archeologists are in a cave looking at Chinese artifacts from various eras. One picks up a rake and says, ""What about this – T'ang, do you think?"" The second puts the rake in his mouth and answers, ""Yes, it does tang a bit""."	10	1157	31		"Screw it, this character refers to the drink. The powdery orange substance is actually found on the floor of tropical caves, where trained aboriginal peoples use wooden rakes to rake the Tang into a pile before putting a bit of it in their mouths to see if it's tasty or not."	
均	level	Soil is scooped up into a ladel. The extra drop is brushed off to make it level.	7	160	8		"To remember the extra stroke in the ladle, make a vivid image of a big drop of excess soil fr0m the ladle falling out onto the ground when you level it."	
逮	apprehend	"Think police roadblocks. They act like road sieves, letting good people through but apprehending criminals."	11	1160	31		"In Space Balls, they were combing the desert in order to apprehend Lone Star. Picture Dark Helmet saying ""Combing the desert failed, we must now sieve the road!""."	
君	old boy	"There's a tendancy in Japan to make the younger members (kouhai) clean up after the older members (senpai) of a group, which results in a lot of grumbling and whining. ""Well old boy,"" a senpai might say, ""If you did as much work with the mop as you do with your mouth, you would have been done an hour ago""."	7	1162	31		"The Beatles, english old boys, had hairs like mop and a good singing mouth."	
耐	-proof	"[akrodha] My comb is rust-proof, water-proof, and fire-proof. But unfortunately it is not idiot-proof--and I glued it to myself."	9	1164	31		"I spent $100 recently on this excellent rust-proof, water-proof, fire-proof comb. But two days after having bought it, I left it in my back pocket and sat down, snapping this expensive comb in half! I glued it back together, but now every time I try to comb through my thick hair, it just breaks apart again. I guess my comb is also glue-proof."	
票	ballot	"In the Old West there were no ballot boxes. Afraid of fraud and fighting among the gunslingers, the ballots were posted into a slot in the top of the local church altar instead. They may have been rough, but the cowboys wouldn't fight in the church."	11	1606	41		"In western political elections (US), peoples ballots will often depend on religion and at which altar the prospective president prays."	
魚	fish	"The elements of this kanji are bound up, rice field and cooking fire. When I think of bound up cooked rice, it makes me think of sushi, which in turn brings to mind fish."	11	171	8		Bind that FISH and cook his brains! Yarhh!	
里	ri	The ri is a Japanese way of measuring the area of the GROUND underneath a RICE FIELD.	7	173	9		"Hint: Heisig makes here a severe disservice to everyone by using a weird keyword for this character. You'll save a lot (and I mean, a whole lot) of trouble later by giving it instead its intended meaning: House of the Parents."	
両	both	"Primatives celing; belt; mountain as per Cumulative Errata. See volfy post for link. Both effective ways to commit suicide, hang your self from the celing with your belt or jump off a mountain."	6	1168	31		Both of Tiger Wood's initials is the logo on his belt... 　　　　　　　　RTK2:　リョウ　両親　りょうしん(one's parents).	
画	brush stroke	"You decide one day to paint a kanji on your ceiling. Unfortunately, you don’t have a brush, so, being innovative, you use a sprout. Knowing it could be messy, you search for a drop-cloth, but can’t find one. Instead, you put a shovel down on the floor to catch any drips resulting from the BRUSH-STROKEs."	8	1170	31		"To paint a kanji in your ceiling with only natural materials, you use a sprout as a brush and shovel some dirt to use as paint for your strokes. [modified from johnskb's]."	
歯	tooth	"Stop shoveling rice into your mouth, you'll hurt a tooth! Use chopsticks instead."	12	1171	31		My dentist used his foot and a shovel to dislodge the rice stuck between my teeth.	
胴	trunk	"A trunk, a trunk // The body of a monk // The body of a monk in a trunk, a trunk."	10	182	9		"Dead flesh all looks the same when you chop off everything but the trunk. Yes, I'm appalled at how gruesome this story is too."	
尚	esteem	An especially esteemed alien has three antennae on his helmet.	8	184	9		"Remember that scene from Star Wars, where Luke is wearing that helmet that only his mouth could see, and was swinging at that little thing buzzing around the room? That was Obi-Wan's trick to get Luke to build his self-esteem, or his confidence in the Force."	
南	south	South of my belt leads to happiness.	9	1613	41		"In the south (Southern Alabama, Southern Africa, picture any south, but choose one and stick with it) ""they measure happyness by the belt"". If someone has a larger belly (and a longer belt), it is believed they are well fed and thus are happy."	
漕	rowing	"Bender the cadet (see frame 1172) is rowing, during some army exercise, and he's very afraid of water (Bender is a robot)."	14	1175	31		"The space cadet is in training, rowing in the water (see it splash)."	
斗	Big Dipper	"Since the meaning of ""big dipper"" is rather specific and the sense of measurement seems to be a more common usage, I concentrate on the primative meaning of measuring cup. This is a pictograph, with the first two strokes representing the measuring ticks on the side of the cup."	4	1177	31		"Is it just me, or do all of these traditional kanji pictographs look like they were drawn by a retarded bunny rabbit?"	
献	offering	A South Korean street vendor is offering chihuahu snacks.	13	1615	41		"If you go to someones place and the food sucks, you lower it down south of the table as an offering to their dog."	
木	tree	"If you need a story for a tree, then you need to be hit by one."	4	195	10		Pictograph of a tree.	
用	utilize	"To tenderize meat in an emergency wilderness situation, just utilize your walking stick!"	5	1181	31		"I'll confuse this with use (#990), so build a distinction right from the start. For me, ""utilize"" has an artificial, business-speak connotation; you only utilize ""utilize"" when you're trying to puff up what you're saying and sound important. So: ""BioTools Inc introduces the FG2000 screwdriver, utilizing the our latest FleshGrip(tm) technology!"" I'm seeing this as a picture of a stubby screwdriver with a handle made of flesh, a short shaft, and prongs to hold a screw in place until you drive it."	
庸	comfortable	"To live a comfortable life, single men need only a cave for living, a rake for cleaning and a screwdriver for fixing."	11	1182	31		"When I first moved in to my new cave, all I had was a bed (see bed (#592)). But now I've settled in, got myself a few handy things like a rake and a screwdriver, and made myself more comfortable."	
杏	apricot	From the tree straight into the mouth is the best way to eat an APRICOT!	7	203	10		Imagine Totoro sleeping under his tree. As he snores a giant apricot falls nicely into his open mouth and he emits a giant burp of satisfaction. I can hear that music alreay....to - to to - to - ro...	
昔	once upon a time	"Once upon a time, the children were forced to eat their salad every day."	8	1184	32		"For those who don't know the expression, ""salad days"" means the time of one's youth. (originally from Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra - see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Salad_days). I suspect Heisig chose ""salad"" as the name for the radical just for this phrase..."	
間	interval	"The interval between star systems (suns) was too large, so the stargates were created to travel between them."	12	1620	42		We open the gates at regular intervals to let a bit of sun in.	
簡	simplicity	The simplicity of bamboo plant is in all its joints being at equal intervals.	18	1621	42		[simplicity; brevity] The ししおどし is a bamboo device for scaring birds from the gates of your garden by clacking against a stone at regular intervals. Its design is simplicity itself. (Inspired by PepeSeco).	
借	borrow	"Once upon a time I let Mr T borrow my salad bowl, but he won't give it back. ""This be mine now, foo!""."	10	1186	32		"Mr. T borrowed a copy of Cinderella and won't give it back. He keeps watching it over and over again, trying to figure out how the Fairy Godmother does her magic."	
惜	pity	What a pity! My state of mind when i think of the opportunities I missed from once upon a time.	11	1187	32		"Data says ""What a pity"" when he hears that once upon a time there were no robots."	
措	set aside	"Long ago our ancestors set aside the use of fingers and began to use cutlery. (Raichu,11-7-2006) The way I remember it's 昔 once upon a time (#1184) rather than 旧 olden times (#35) is that they began to use cutlery to eat salad. (I also think about how when you visit the Medieval Times theme park, which is set in Once upon a time, their gimmick is that you eat with your fingers.)."	11	1188	32		"""Once upon a time..."" Oh hell, you're just too old for this. You close your fairy tale book and set it aside, pushing it away with your fingers."	
廿	twenty	"A generation is 30, one stroke less is twenty."	4	1190	32		Ten plus ten is twenty (see generation (#28)).	
閑	leisure	"Imagine the gates the Garden of Eden, the ultimate land of leisure. You're not allowed in, but if you peek through you can see trees."	12	1625	42		Getting wood watching lesbians is my idea of leisure time.	
遮	intercept	The commoners are revolting! We must intercept them on the road before they reach the castle!	14	1192	32		"If don't want your secret message to be intercepted, make sure your deliveryman is dressed as a commoner while traveling on the road."	
株	stocks	"Which tree would you buy stocks in - the healthy one on the left, or the one with only one vermilion leaf left on the right?"	10	222	10		"Ideally, one buys stocks when a company is young, ""green,"" and rapidly growing -- then sells them just before the last vermillion leaf falls off, and a period of dormancy or limited growth begins."	
度	degrees	"The cavern refugees are so poor that they can't afford thermometers. So, the menfolk expose their crotches inside the cavern, and approximate the temperature in degrees from how shrivelled everything looks downstairs..."	9	1194	32		The cave is twenty degrees cooler than the outdoors. Twenty male crotches experience shrinkage.	
渡	transit	"This particular form of transit is a ferry (one of the actual meanings of this character). Naturally it can only cross the water if it's not frozen, so the temperature must be above 0 degrees."	12	1195	32		"The transit system in Tokyo is one of the best in the wrold, but why is it that when it is 35 degrees outside, it is about 2 degrees on the train? Or when it is 2 degrees outside, it is 35 degrees inside the train. This degree of difference means I am always sweating then getting the chills! I think I caught a fever!"	
欄	column	[column; handrail; blank; space] I think about oriental (eastern) Torii gates: they have two supporting columns made of wood.	20	1628	42		A column of text scratched on a black tree beside the gates of Hell: To the East lies The Beast.	
漠	vague	The precise locations of sailors who meet a WATERY GRAVE are vague.	13	230	10		"The water in the graveyard has worn away the headstones, so the writing is vague."	
墳	tomb	After the eruption all is a tomb. The soil has covered the remains of the farmers gathering haystacks and of the fisherman collecting shells.	15	1198	32		"Using soil and hay to make bricks, the Egyptians built the pyramids to entomb the Pharaohs along with all of their money."	
倉	godown	"(Warning-this one is crude) Imagine a godown (dockside warehouse) where you can meet girls who will godown on you with their mouth. To keep the place a bit of a secert, they only have one gate."	10	1630	42		"Hint : the ""godown"" is like a warehouse, it's on the docks and mostly in Asia. To make an image distinct from that of ""warehouse"" or ""storehouse"", etc, I picture the goods stored there, piled up on pallets really high, and thus they have to ""godown"" before they can be taken outside. The front of this godown is a ""meeting of small gates"", i.e. a row of gates through which goods come in and out. The mouth can be an opening somewhere in the back, or the top, where cranes lift down the goods."	
憤	aroused	"Note: this word in Japanese has the idea of ""indignant"". So aroused here refers to being aroused because of anger over some unjust or wrong act, unfairness etc. It doesn't seem to carry a meaning associated with arousal in the sense of sex or pleasure. So, my story: think of the angry state of mind aroused at finding all your clams buried under your haystack stolen, gone!"	15	1199	32		Data was aroused/indignant when he saw what the volcano had done to the farmers building their haystacks and the fishermen collecting their shells . The tragedy of it all aroused him so much he didn't even notice he was feeling emotion.	
創	genesis	Back in the day the people were so excited to get hold of the Sega genesis they looted the godown with sabers.	12	1631	42		I prefer to have girls Godown on my sabre to prevent unwanted GENESIS of babies............創造　そうぞう (creation).	
暁	daybreak	The sun rising beside a straw man in a corn field is a classic cartoon depiction of daybreak.	12	1201	32		The first person to see the sun at daybreak is of course the straw man who stands outside all day.	
非	un-	This looks like a pictogram of 3 fingers from each hand trying to open up a crack in a wall. That's an un-believable way to escape from prison OR the UN- have a prison in the Hague.	8	1632	42		"People in the jail cell are un-friendly, un-comely, and un-cooperative."	
然	sort of thing	"Flesh of a dog over a cooking fire = ""hotdog"". There are all sorts of things in hot dogs. Believe me, you don't want to know what sort of things . Visualize the hotdog curling as it cooks, to remember the unusual way the flesh primitive curves in this kanji. (tweaked version of ziggr's. Thanks!)."	12	241	11		"There are all sorts of things in hot dogs. (I use hot dog for this primitive (meat of a dog over a cooking fire). I swear I can actually see the 月 here as a hot dog, with its slight curve and grill marks.)."	
畔	paddy ridge	A PADDY-RIDGE divides the RICE FIELD in HALF.	10	1204	32		"Think about a large rice field as a big square. Then you draw a line down the middle, halving it into two. Then you draw a line across the middle, halving it again into four... These halvings are paddy-ridges that separate the rice field into separate sections. I dunno the reason why, but that's how it's done."	
排	repudiate	"When ordered to go to the jail cell, the defendant gave the judge the finger and said he repudiated all that the legal system stood for if they were going to send an innocent man like him to jail."	11	1634	42		"He reached his fingers through the bars of his jail cell, trying to touch his beloved. But she repudiated him and left."	
告	revelation	"The revelation makes the cow's mouth drop down, ""Hamburgers are made of what?!""."	7	247	11		"When you get a revelation, you may drop to the ground with your mouth wide open."	
圏	sphere	"I assosiate scrolls with spell casting, the efect of this spell is pent in a certain sphere of influence, outside it no damage is done."	12	1208	32		"[RPG] You're fighting a powerful enemy. Your mage uses a scroll/quartersnake of protection, and he's pent in a sphere of protection."	
勝	victory	After your VICTORY cut your enemy's FLESH into QUARTERs to show your POWER.	12	1209	32		"After England's victory over Scottish rebel William Wallace, they had his flesh drawn and quartered and then sent around Britain to demonstrate their power."	
王	king	To be king you have to be a real crafty one !	4	255	12		The king unites heaven and earth. (imagine heaven being the top line over the soil).	
謄	facsimilie	Sending a facsimile to the moon can be problematic only a quarter of the words actually get there.	17	1211	32		"As a prank, a guy sits with his butt flesh on the facsimile machine, inserts a quarter, and tries to fax it to his boss. However the facsimile machine has pattern recognition technology and instead of an image of his flesh, it just transmits the word ""asshole"". Don't forget it's flesh, not words, on the left side; the flesh image gets transformed into words."	
侯	marquis	"Mr. T is made a marquis after he and the A-Team save the life of a duke. The duke also gives Mr. T the key to the gentleman's dart room where one can relax in luxury, smoke a cigar, and play a friendly game of darts. Mr. T eagerly accepts the key and places it on one of the gold chains that hang around his neck which acts as a key chain."	9	1639	42		(Going off various) Mr. T. is made a marquis and given the key to the city. But somebody disagrees with it and assassinates him with a dart.	
狂	lunatic	Oh no ! A pack of dogs has bitten the king. He has turned into a rabid lunatic !	7	260	12		"Think of King Nebuchadnezzar, who for 7 years lost his sanity and had to live like a wild animal."	
全	whole	"The fat king hogs the whole space under his umbrella. (tweaked version of radical tyro's story. ""fat"" makes a more vivid image for me.)."	6	263	12		The king takes up the whole space under his umbrella.	
乏	destitution	"Children in complete destitution have no hope of ever getting toys to play with, so when they find even a tiny drop of a building block they are overjoyed."	4	1215	32		Just one drop (of alcohol) and he starts walking in zig-zags – no wonder Zorro's living in destitution. (Note: As a primitive let 之 be Zorro or Zig-Zag: it's pictographic).	
芝	turf	"Zorro, with a flower between his teeth for the ladies, defends his turf against evildoers. ""This is my turf! And this...is for the lady.""."	6	1216	32		Artificial turf made easy: flowers stuck on top of building blocks that you can place anywhere.	
不	negative	"[Smithsonian] Scene: Mr. T hanging from the ceiling being tortured. He is asked if he is going to talk. Spitting (a drop of saliva) in the torturer's face, he says ""Negative""."	4	1217	32		One below zero is a negative number.	
偉	admirable	"Mr. T is certainly an ADMIRABLE PERSON, so much so that parents are buying lockets with his picture in it and having their children wear them like amulets."	12	1643	42		"For locket: The locket (key dangling from something, the vertical stroke) opens like a mouth, but you need a jeweler's monocle to make out the pictures within. ----- Dracula survives a staking attempt when the locket with Mina's admirable picture deflects the blow. ""It was an admirable attempt,"" he admits as he sucks his attacker's blood."	
違	difference	"You lose your precious locket on the road to somewhere. You ask people if they've seen it, but no luck. ""Just buy another one,"" someone says. ""I mean, what's the difference?"" Then of course you say ""Well, it makes a huge difference!! Since it has sentimental value, I don't want a different one! "" Then of course they understand."	13	1644	42		"An odd version of The Road Less Traveled: ""I found a locket in the road, and that has made all the difference.""."	
杯	cupfuls	"The maple tree is very negative about it, but the farmer still collects cupfuls of maple syrup from it."	8	1219	32		A few cupfuls of sake can create a very negative situation. Like smashing into that tree...　　RTK2:　ハイ　一杯　いっぱい(one cupful).	
針	needle	Remember the story of the needle in the haystack. Why would someone even look for a needle if it wasn't a GOLD NEEDLE?	10	274	12		A golden needle is worth ten times more than an ordinary needle.	
衛	defense	"[defense; protection] For ""defense against the dark arts"" class, you go the magical boulevard and buy an enchanted locket."	16	1646	42		"Since it was in the middle of the boulevard, everyone could see she hit the man only in self-defense, as he was trying to steal her valuable locket."	
族	tribe	"With a banner declaring ""Keep Out!"" and blow darts to back it up, the Amazon tribe is not that friendly."	11	1222	33		"Once tribes shot darts under their war banners, now they are putting banner ads on the internet for betting on dart-games at their casinos :(."	
智	wisdom	Wisdom is knowing everything OVER the sun (fools assume everything UNDER).	12	1224	33		"Knowing more each day, brings wisdom."	
干	dry	Dry one item in ten minutes on the clothesline.	3	1648	43		Note: the book shows the strokes for potato rather than dry...dry does not have the hook at the end.	
肝	liver	Well you all know that the liver is the part of the body that would be quite grateful if you led a dry lifestyle (i.e. no alcohol).	7	1649	43		The slaughterhouse prefers to ship dried liver to the supermarkets (can you imagine boxes soaked in blood on the truck that delivers them?). Imagine them lifting the slabs of flesh and hanging them on the clothesline to dry.	
柔	tender	"[tender; weakness; gentleness; softness] Love me tender, Love me perfect, Never cheat on me. Or I'll impale you on my Halberd, And hang ya atop a tree..."	9	1226	33		"Use a halberd to tenderize a tree: halberds can chop, poke, and slash, so it's all good!"	
軌	rut	My car got so stuck in a rut it required nine people pushing to get it out again.	9	288	13		I got my car stuck in a rut ! I'm gonna have to call 999 !	
霧	fog	This fog is the perfect weather for us to perform our task undetected.	19	1228	33		FOG is easy to associate with the RAIN primitive. So think of FOG as a type of RAIN that is slow at the TASK of getting the place wet.	
班	squad	"Am I the only one who took this as penis and balls? In order to be in the man-squad, naturally you need to have two balls with your ""spear"" in the middle there."	10	1229	33		Here we have two kings trying out for the cheer-leading squad. A spear on the floor separates their dancing areas.	
弓	bow	My personification for this primative is Legolas from the Lord of the Rings: a master at the bow. I suppose robin hood etc would work too.	3	1231	33		I have a BOW made from a SNAKE that I BOUND UP. He sure wasn't happy!	
岸	beach	"At the base of mountain cliffs, there is usually a beach. You often can see people lying there, drying off after a swim."	8	1653	43		Three impossibilities for a beach: There cannot be a beach at the top of a mountain. There cannot be a beach on the top of a cliff. There cannot be a beach that is completely dry.	
幹	tree trunk	"A fine mist is falling, and so everyone gathers around near the tree-trunk, effectively using the rest of the tree as an umbrella in order to keep dry."	13	1654	43		"By astridtops - In the rainy mist, Totoro is standing in front of a tree-trunk at the bus stop, under the umbrella he just received. Look at him smiling: even when the big drops fall, he remains dry! Great story...which I get to by thinking: tree-trunk->TT ->Tonari no Totoro. I also imagine Mickey Mouse is there too as the KUNyomi for this kanji is みき."	
弔	condolences	"Perhaps a pictograph of a soldier's weapons--his sword and bow-placed ceremonially over his body before burial, while people offer their condolences."	4	1233	33		Send your condolences to the old geezer whom you shot the walking stick into with your bow. (see pull (#1232)).	
輝	radiance	Rays of light emitted from Apollo's chariot = radiance. Don't put the sun into this kanji. The rays are coming from the chariot directly!	15	302	14		Radiance is an army of rays.	
強	strong	An insect who can fly vast distances is strong.	11	1235	33		Legolas is so strong that he can even shoot down vast numbers of tiny insects at vast distances with ease.	
弱	weak	"Two weak archers agree on a duel to the death. They constantly shoot at each other but never manage to hit their target. But what they lack in skill they make up in determination, and they keep shooting for hours, and days, and months, until it's wintertime and their bows are coated in ice."	10	1236	33		BOWS with ICE on them are brittle and WEAK.	
熟	mellow	Imagine tall children sitting round the fire toasting marsh-mellows.	15	310	14		"The cram school (309) tortures its students - especially the tall and fat ones who need to grow up - over a fire until they mellow. (Note that here the keyword 'mellow' only means to mature, ripen, or acquire skill; not the colloquial meaning of 'chill out')."	
徐	gradually	"You can't expect weight loss to happen overnight. You should limit going to the scale to weigh yourself to once a day or once a week, in order to observe the anticipated weight loss gradually."	10	1659	43		I set up a column chart next to my scales so I could record my weight gradually changing.	
弟	younger brother	"Younger brothers are always more prone to mischief. Mine, you can almost see the little horns on him and the dollar signs on his eyes when he comes up with a money-making scheme."	7	1240	33		The younger brother was a horny dollar -chasing bastard.	
舎	cottage	The cottage is so small - it has an umbrella for the roof; soil for the floor and room for only one mouth.	8	316	14		My vacation cottage is nothing but a hole in the ground covered by an umbrella.	
号	nickname	"My nickname is ""No Lips"". Yep, I shouldn't have put my mouth on that bear trap..."	5	1242	33		"When certain nickname snares to people's mouths, they will call you that way forever."	
朽	decay	"This snare isn't terribly effective, because it's swinging from a decaying tree. Imagine the tree as being so decayed that when an animal gets caught in the snare, its struggles cause the tree to collapse into a putrid mess."	6	1243	33		枯 wither The decay of an animal in the TREE was from something caught in a SNARE.	
学	study	"In the school house there are kids always studying. (BTW, atomiton, this is NOT 字)."	8	324	15		"Children in schoolhouses are there to study, nothing else!!!"	
束	bundle	"Mnemonic: Bundle of joy. Here I see the proverbial stork with a baby hanging from its mouth fly straight into a tree. Painful, but he doesn't drop the bundle."	7	1664	43		"Unlike in 杏, this big mouth isn't content to wait for apricots to fall in his mouth, so he has climbed the tree and is taking them in bundles."	
写	copy	"A crown was bestowed to the British royalty museum, but it was only a copy."	5	1247	33		True fact: in the UK the right to print a copy of the KJV Bible is bestowed by the crown -- there are only a few authorised bible printers. (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/King_James_Bible#Copyright_status).	
攻	aggression	Aggression is the craft of a good dominatrix.	7	330	15		AGGRESSION is a well-honed craft for any decent taskmaster.	
射	shoot	You SHOOT SOMEBODY with a GLUE-gun.	10	1249	34		The aim of shooting is to end up with a bullet stuck in someone's body.	
謝	apologize	Dick Cheney...	17	1250	34		"The famous speech by the man that Dick Cheney shot in the face: ""I'm sorry for the trouble I have caused the Vice President""."	
勅	imperial order	"This is an imperial order for pizza. To deliver the huge bundle of pizzas to the emperor, the pizza boy needs huge muscles."	9	1667	43		Imperial order carries quite a bundle of executive power.	
獄	prison	The wild dog family visits their cousin in prison. They exchange words over the interphone at the visiting booth.	14	338	15		The only thing keeping the new chihuahua inmate from being 'initiated' by the pack of wild dogs were his quick words in prison.	
速	quick	"If you find a bundle of money on the road, pick it up quick before anyone notices."	10	1669	43		"Uh oh. The stork just dropped the bundle of joy in the middle of the road. Somebody save it, quick!"	
教	teach	"In early Japan, filial piety was the cornerstone of education, and harsh taskmasters were employed to teach it."	11	1254	34		"You could say that the taskmistress is teaching you filial piety when she whips you and asks, ""Who's your daddy?!""."	
話	tale	"Tales are always spoken, not written, and because of this, words fly out of your tongue, rather than your pen."	13	344	15		"Tales are spoken words, passed on from person to person, eventually being spoken by a thousand mouths."	
者	someone	"I find the best way of memorizing this kanji is in conjunction with the Japanese compound for ninja: 忍者 -- i.e. someone who endures (see FRAME 597 for the kanji 忍). A 忍者 is not just a 身 (somebody), it's 者 who can 忍 great 拷!"	8	1256	34		"Back in the day, the old man used to be someone. His name was in the papers and all that. I use CHUCKY from the movie Child's Play as my major alternate meaning for this primitive."	
煮	boil	"I had a hard time with the next several frame numbers trying to use ""puppet."" So i thought of ""voodoo doll"" but then found ""love doll"" (which is just a special type of puppet) fit well with these 8 frames. Observe: Here I am boiling my love doll over the flames to warm her up a bit..."	12	1257	34		"There is a lesser known voodoo practice of boiling a puppet over an oven fire, to really make your victim feel the heat!"	
険	precipitous	"The edge of The Pinnacle is precipitous, so they have a guard posted with an ice pick to poke people and keep them from the edge."	11	1672	43		Well I have someone climbing an inflatable precipitous pinnacle. Once at the top it is so precipitous that the person is afraid to climb down and instead punctures the inflatable pinnacle with an awl to get safely and slowly back to the ground.	
諭	rebuke	A PETA activist speaks at a meeting of butchers to rebuke them.	16	352	15		"I imagine Socrates gate-crashing a meeting of butchers and REBUKING them: 'You've been killing things again; you have, haven't you?' while the embarrassed butchers blush and try to hide their knives behind their backs and stand in front of hanging sides of beef."	
倹	frugal	"Mr. T is as frugal as they come. He uses his one ice pick for everything: to eat, pick his teeth, clean his toilet, kill people, cook, etc."	10	1674	43		The Dalai Lama is a very frugal monk and a fit person for being 73...　RTK2:　ケン　倹約　けんやく (economizing)...　　　　　　　　　　　　Pure Group:　剣1671　険1672　権1673　験1980.	
諸	various	"Because i get tired of saying the same old thing, I have lately been trying to use various terms of endearment to my love doll. I think she appreciates it too."	15	1261	34		"When you pull the string at the back of Chucky, he will say various things. ""Hidey-ho! Ha ha ha!"" ""Hi, I'm Chucky. Wanna play?"" ""I'm going to eat your liver, bitch!""."	
栽	plantation	The plantation is where we get our Christmas trees. We pick them out at Thanksgiving to be sure we get a good one.	10	358	16		"During Thanksgiving, all the trees on the plantation celebrate the harvest. It's a good time for them, too."	
渚	strand	I was stranded on a desert island surrounded by water for hundreds of miles on end. I wasn't upset though - I had my love doll! What a great strand of sand to be stranded on - just me and my love doll!	11	1263	34		"A lovely romantic walk on the strand, splashing in the water with my love doll."	
賭	gamble	"When we gamble at the shell game, I always win against my love doll."	15	1264	34		People who gamble compulsively are like puppets controlled by money.	
威	intimidate	The march of women - against intimidation in the workplace - is pretty intimidating in itself!	9	364	16		"Interesting that this kanji also has the meanings of ""dignity"" and ""threaten."" I can see how a march of women in Japan would be seen as intimidating by most men."	
減	dwindle	"When WATER was tossed on the PROTESTORS (a march of mouths), the numbers began to DWINDLE."	12	366	16		"When water supplies dwindled, the population became a horde of dry mouths, marching to seize the water in the neighboring kingdom."	
種	species	"After the whole low-carb craze, scientists developed a new low-carb species of wheat, so that dieters could eat it without getting heavier."	14	1679	43		"This kanji also means ""Seed."" STORY: Scientists have developed a new SPECIES of WHEAT that has large HEAVY seeds. Now we can feed the world."	
追	chase	"Maestro, coattails flapping wildly, is being chased down the road by his fans."	9	1268	34		"Maestro primative = James Bond. Here he gives chase down the road to the bad guys. I'm thinking of the car chase in 'The Man with the Golden Gun' - NOT pursue (#539). I think about 'Race N Chase' (a scalextric type toy)...there were no pigs in 'Race N Chase', only cars."	
官	bureaucrat	No one likes classical music anymore. Our Maestro is here at home without his baton sighing sadly before he heads off for another day as his new job as a bureaucrat.	8	1271	34		"Bureaucrat, def: The maestro without a baton, the one who orchestrates oppressive rules, regulations and taxes on every household."	
病	ill	Caveman got ill after flying third class. The cabin air and food got to him. (Primitive: these all got MUCH easier when using CAVEMAN instead. ).	10	1682	44		"If you hang around a third class hospital, you'll get ill with the sickness everyone else has."	
政	politics	Those involved in politics are always trying to elect the correct taskmaster.	9	381	17		"Insane political correctness on the left, and facists taskmasters on the right- thats politics in a nutshell right there."	
父	father	"Luke, I am your father. Darth Vader (really surprised nobody put this one up before: 2 laserswords)."	4	1274	34		"Not to confuse anyone, but I think if you put your mind to it, you can see the image of a father here. The first two strokes take on the form of his eye brows, and the third and fourth stroke make up the nose and mustache."	
痘	pox	Caveman has horrible pox. They look like edamame beans oozing bight green paste.	12	1684	44		Pox is a sickness which symptoms include bean-shaped bumps on the skin.	
交	mingle	"Even though your FATHER is an old man, he can't give up his party lifestyle. Once a week he still dons his cool TOP HAT (well, it was cool 40 years ago) and goes out on the town to MINGLE with the ladies. This is a pretty common thing in Japan, where old motherfuckers still think they can pick up 19 year old girls."	6	1275	34		"Darth Vader tries to mingle with his troops. He even weares one of the helmets of the stromtroopers. (one of them laughs: white helmet, black suit. Darth Vader thereby slashes him in 2)."	
効	merit	"Mingling with the powerful can bring you success, bypassing the need for any merit."	8	1276	34		There is great merit in mingling with the powerful.	
校	exam	"With the exam scores posted on a TREE, the students MINGLED around looking at the results. test. 試."	10	1278	34		Note: this Kanji does not mean exam. It means school. I find this keyword an choice odd as school by itself is not used elsewhere. Examples: 校長 is principal (lit. school chief); 中学校 is junior high school (lit. middle study/knowledge school).	
痢	diarrhea	"For a country full of pay-per-use public toilets, sudden diarrhea is certainly the most profitable sickness!"	12	1687	44		"Caveman doesn't have any skills, so he sells his diarrhea as chili to peasant wheat farmers for an amazing profit."	
婿	bridegroom	"The virgin bridegroom tries to understand the new, mysterious part of his woman's body - but with little success. It's a zoo down there! (primitives placement: the part of the body is 'down there' - the woman is 'left' unsatisfied)."	12	395	17		"The only reason anyone talks about a bridegroom is if they're about to or have just gotten married. Of course, then you have to go on your honeymoon. So you take your woman to the zoo for a month. Pretty cool honeymoon."	
距	long-distance	You can step a long-distance if you have a leg that's gigantic!	12	1281	34		You can step a long-distance if you have gigantic wooden legs (stilts).	
疫	epidemic	"Sickness-missiles are being engineered by bio-terrorists to spread epidemics all over the world. Imagine seeing footage of a place where those sickness-missiles are built : rows after rows of missiles, and if you look closely on each is inscribed in tiny letters the name of different sickness such as ""flu"", ""plague"", etc."	9	1689	44		"SICKNESS / MISSILE ** Hint: True fact about biochemical warfare: in the medieval and ancient world, SICKNESS in the form of the corpses of those who had died from some EPIDEMIC or plague were often hurled at the enemy via the crude MISSILE launchers of the time. [C]."	
路	path	"When pirates try to hide, it's always easy to find them. Their wooden legs leave distinctive prints, showing where each is hiding and the exact path he took."	13	1282	34		"I have a wooden leg for each type of path. One with a rubber stopper at the end for absorbing shocks on paved paths, and one with a wide foot to distribute weight better on mud paths."	
哀	pathetic	One of my friends with a crazy sense of fashion loves to wear a tophat and a scarf so that you can't see his whole face but only his mouth. He thinks it's cool. I think it's pathetic.	9	401	18		"A poor, homeless child like Oliver Twist, with a hungry open mouth, is pathetic-- in the original sense of the noun ""pathos."" The tattered tophat and scarf he wears only adds to the pathos."	
躍	leap	"Well, there are weekdays weekday (#576) and there are laundry days laundry (#577), and on February 29th leap day, the manufacturer recommends servicing or replacing your peg leg because they tend to wear out every 4 years."	21	1285	34		"[Story for people following katsuo in making feathers+turkey a 'futon' primitive] If you're going to leap from a high place, better hope there's a futon below -- otherwise you're going to break your leg at the very least..."	
匿	hide	"Young kids likes to hide in cardboard boxes. (Primitive: CARDBOARD BOX, especially kids playing with them.)."	10	1692	44		"Note that stroke order with box primitive is as follows: first horizontal line, then enclosed element, and then a hook (it's incorrect in 4th edition)."	
幕	curtain	"There is a graveyard outside my house that scares me, so I put a huge towel over the window to serve as a curtain so I can get a good nights sleep."	13	409	18		"When you're dead in the graveyard, ""it's curtains for you.""."	
医	doctor	The doctor puts the cardboard box on his head and throws a dart at a chart to determine his patients' illnesses.	7	1694	44		"This DOCTOR prefers to use DARTS instead of syringes for injections. Here, he pulls out his BOX of DARTS, and the child on the examination table squirms."	
滑	slippery	"Don't give water to a skeleton. When he drinks it, it'll sluice right through his bones, forcing you to put one of those ""Caution - Slippery Floor"" signs up on the resultant puddle."	13	1289	34		"Slippery surfaces are very dangerous for skeletons, since their bone feet slip easily... a few drops of water, and zweep! A large mess of bones to pick up and reassemble!"	
髄	marrow	"A skeleton is shuffling along the shoulder of the road, so you pull up next to him and ask where he is going. He says he's going to donate his marrow to the hospital because he got into some financial trouble and lost everything; his marrow is the only thing he still possesses."	19	1290	34		"A skeleton by the side of the road, holding a sign ""Possess marrow, will travel"". Yeah, it makes no sense but I don't foget the kanji."	
区	ward	That's the homeless ward of the city. Wolverine lives in a cardboard box there.	4	1696	44		Every child in this ward has an X-box…　RTK2:　ク　地区　ちく (region).　Mixed Group:　駆1983　(ｽｳ): 枢1697　(ｵｳ): 殴1698　欧1699.	
転	revolve	The REVOLVING wheels of the car (with REVOLVER blaring on the stereo) kicked up RISING CLOUDS of dust.	11	420	18		"Just a note to remember the cloud primative: The name of Goku's pet cloud that he used to help him rise (fly) in the Dragonball anime series (and also the scientific name for a certain type of cloud) is Nimbus [ http://www.rpgclassics.com/shrines/gba/dbztlog/screen2.jpg ]. The katakana-ization of this is {ニム}バス, so the rising cloud primative is just an abbreviation of that name written from top to bottom in the old Japanese style."	
過	overdo	"Jaws XII~! Jaws strikes the highway! Man, they're really overdoing it now."	12	1293	34		In 'American History X' Edward Norton's character overdoes it when he makes the dude that tried to steal his car lie face down with his jawbone open over the pavement of the roadway and then stamps on the back of his head. My teeth still tingle when I think of that!	
殴	assault	The city decides to disperse the homeless ward with a precision missile assault. They didn't know Wolverine was living in a cardboard box there though...	8	1698	44		"In this hospital ward, the personnel is assaulted by missiles. Think of a ward where crazy old people assault the personnel because they don't like the food, they don't want to take their medicines, they want to go home, etc. The patients use whatever they can get their hands on as missiles."	
阪	Heights	"If you're scared of Heights, you don't want to stay at The Pinnacle; you are anti- The Pinnacle. Primitive: The Pinnacle is a dream-like gated community at the top of a mount. This allows for innumerable stories for all the kanji with this primitive since you have a whole city to work with. Also prevents confusion with ""mountain""."	7	1294	35		"People are being displaced in 大阪 to make room for a new development, Osaka Heights, the pinnacle of modern Japanese housing. An angry mob of protestors are outside with Anti-Osaka Heights signs."	
霜	frost	"FROST is kind of an inter-weather, phenomenon, something between rain, snow and freezing temp’s."	17	426	18		"The freezing RAIN formed FROST on the TREE right before your EYES. If you want, frost-y then think Frost Tree to get to the mnemonic. SECOND STORY: FROSTY the snowman? It's RAIN that FROSTS that can then INTER-act with the kids, till he melts of course."	
際	occasion	"On occasian, rituals are held at the very tip of The Pinnacle."	14	1296	35		"Many rituals are practiced every day (blessing before meals, evening prayer, etc.) Only the peak rituals (wedding, Bar Mitzvah, etc.) qualify to be called an occasion."	
障	hinder	The officer at the gate to The Pinnacle with a giant badge sewn to his chest hinders all visitors. But not the handicapped. They're hindered enough already. They're given a badge and can pass right into The Pinnacle.	14	1297	35		The pinnacle of racism was that of the Nazis. They made the Jews wear a badge on their clothes to identify them. They hindered their every movement. Moreover the peace-loving Dutch all wore the badges so that the Jews would be unidentifiable. Effectively hindering the Nazi plot.	
帝	sovereign	"The crazy sovereign stands up from his throne, wearing nothing but a crown and a towel. That's why they try to keep him locked up in the castle away from the public."	9	435	18		"This one is so tricky for me. The key is to remember that the bottom stroke on the standing element takes those little crown ""winglets"" on the right and left. The most effective image might be of QEII (who is quite short) using her crown as a kind of stool. She's standing on her crown rummaging through a high cupboard looking for her apron. I guess the sovereign's servants have the day off."	
陽	sunshine	"A kid is perched on a pinnacle with his piggy bank. He uses the coins to catch the sunshine, and redirect it into people's eyes, far below."	12	1300	35		The Pinnacle is environmentally friendly. They collect solar power through sunshine on their piggybank shaped solar arrays.	
登	ascend	"When an American Indian warrior dies, his body is placed on a TABLE inside a TEEPEE, and a ritualistic ceremony is held to encourage his spirit to ASCEND to that big buffalo hunting ground in the sky."	12	1703	44		"When I was a kid I went out camping in a teepee. I ate beans for dinner, and afterwards I produced so much gas that my teepee actually ascended in the air!"	
陳	line up	"Every morning at The Pinnacle, the residents line upon the East side for morning stretches and leisure."	11	1301	35		"Hikers line up to get to the top of that great pinnacle of the East... Mount Fuji. Seriously, they really do! ...probably the only mountain in the world with a queue at the top."	
適	suitable	"Think of the term from televison ""suitable for all audiences"" to get the sense of the word. What program could be more suitable for the whole family than the ""antiques road(show)""."	14	441	18		That old thing in your attic might be suitable to be shown on the Antiques Roadshow.	
院	Inst.	"The Institution of The Pinnacle is perfect in every way. It is the new House of God, his chosen city."	10	1304	35		To reach the pinnacle of kanji perfect you need to attend the Heisig Inst.	
廃	abolish	I think discharging nuclear weapons should be abolished. That includes underground tests in caves. You listening Kim Jong-il?	12	1706	44		"Guns were abolished, so gun enthusiats left for the hills to discharge their guns in caves."	
皆	all	"If you compare colors, you will find that white is produced from the mix of all the others."	9	449	18		"Sometimes, Dr. Heisig's keyword choices are really quite bizarre. This doesn't mean all, it means everyone!! Picture two ku klux klansmen comparing whose skin is whiter...finally, they agree that everyone there is white."	
墜	crash	"One of the members of our air force regiment has been shot down; he managed to safely eject, but his plane crashed into the ground."	15	1307	35		"The regiment led by horny Miss Piggy wearing a viking helmet accidently falls off The Pinnacle and crashes into the ground below. // old story with wrong meaning of regiment: Kermit is so frustrated with horny Miss Piggy's regimented sex schedule, he throws her off The Pinnacle and she crashes into the ground."	
寮	dormitory	"This guy would rather use his pup-tent as a house, than sleep in the dormitory. So he effectively turned that pup-tent into a house by getting a postal address for it etc. (just to emphasize house)."	15	1708	44		"All-male dormitories in Japan are really weird, and tend to have a little too much 男気. Here is a trick they play where if they find that one dorm member has pitched a ""pup tent"" while sleeping, they make it into a house by putting a little roof on top of it -- complete with a lit cigarette for a chimney -- and wait for the ""fun"" to start (fun meaning...lighting their friend's genitals on fire)."	
療	heal	"In Final Fantasy 4, sleeping in a tent completely heals you and recovers all your HP and MP (and cures any sickness your characters may have)."	17	1709	44		Sick caveman has to sleep in his pup tent. Not the cave because to humid and cold but a nice small pup tent in the sun will heal him from his cold.	
階	story	"All buildings of The Pinnacle are multi-storey. They don't have much room, so they have to build up. It sucks when someone presses all the buttons on the elevator! You have to stop at each storey!"	12	1309	35		"Some stupid kid has pushed all the buttons in the elevator. As it stops at all storeys you reach a pinnacle of impatience. Finally you reach your storey, the last one, at the pinnacle of the building."	
隣	neighboring	"America thinks it is the pinnacle of the world, looking down on all neighboring countries through its mirrored, aviator sunglasses."	16	1311	35		"All the neighboring communities to the Pinnacle have a major problem. The kids at the Pinnacle have a habit of throwing down rice from the city walls in all directions, so people in neighboring communities are forced to wear sunglasses all the time in order to avoid getting rice in their eyes."	
隔	isolate	"The Pinnacle, to me, is a city that makes itself out to be perfect but is filled with dirty secrets that photographers are always trying to reveal (see dissolve (#1044) The city's councilmen have isolated all professional photographers to make sure they don't photograph these ""dirty secrets"". (which are up to your imagination)."	13	1312	35		"The people of the pinnacle isolate themselves, dissolving any outside friendships."	
腹	abdomen	The only body part that doubles over.	13	464	18		"Imagine getting punched in the abdomen, a fairly tender part of flesh, and instead of doubling forward, you double back. That would be pretty painful."	
堕	degenerate	"Any attempt to possess the pinnacle will degenerate into a land (""ground"") war."	12	1314	35		"A degenerate doctor at The Pinnacle is doing illegal abortions. He's so sick he just throws the aborted fetuses onto the ground far below. And like a possess demon, he keeps some tied to his side on a belt as trophies."	
杉	cedar	"Cedar is an evergreen tree that keeps its SHAPE all year long. That is, it doesn't loose its needles/leaves in the winter."	7	1713	45		Mystique leaning against a cedar tree for a photo shoot.	
陥	collapse	"The Pinnacle is actually bound up by supports from olden times. Eventually, they give out, and the whole thing starts to collapse."	10	1315	35		"The Pinnacle is supported by pilings which were bound up in olden times. One day when the bindings rot away, the whole thing will collapse. (tweaking dihutensoa's story to work a little better for me)."	
穴	hole	"A black hole is a ""House of Infinity"". Infinity is of course represented by a sideways ""8"", but here we have a Japanese ""8"" instead."	5	1316	35		Billiards anyone? House rules here state that the first person to pot the eight ball into the hole wins the game.	
控	withdraw	"With my fingers, I punch in my bank code and withdraw some money from my account. And now it's empty again, as usual!"	11	1318	35		"If you find yourself in a fight with a karate master with no weapons or martial art skills, just your empty fingers, you should withdraw because 空手 (karate=""empty hand"") is more powerful than 控 (=""empty fingers"")."	
彦	lad	"A young lad is standing atop a cliff, looking at the writhing shape of his fallen lass below."	9	1716	45		A naughty young lad stands on the cliff and throws his Playdoh off the edge.	
剖	divide	"When you DIVIDE someone, there is sure to be a lot of screaming. That's why you should use a MUZZLE before using the SABER."	10	478	19		"Divide and conquer - first you cut them up (saber) , then you shut them up (muzzle)."	
韻	rhyme	What is a RHYME but some SOUND that EMPLOYEES say to get them through work.	19	481	19		"Dr Seuss's employee finally rebels against him: ""I'm tired of odd sounds all the time, I will not, cannot, speak in RHYME!""."	
膨	swell	An injured body part may swell. It will begin to throb like a bass drum and will change shape.	16	1719	45		"If a PART OF your BODY begins to SWELL and resembles the SHAPE of a bass DRUM, you’re either pregnant or in desperate need of a diet."	
窪	depression	A depression is a hole in the ground. Water naturally collects there which provides moisture for vines to grow.	14	1323	35		The depression in the ground become a trap: the hole was filled with water and covered with ivy.	
妄	delusion	"I had a problem with remembering that ""deceased"" went over the ""woman"". So, here's my story: The delusional woman was carrying her deceased husband on her back."	6	487	19		"If you think you should perish for that woman, you have a major delusion."	
窯	kiln	"Be sure to put a hole in that ceramic sheep before you put it over the fire. Otherwise, it'll just explode in the kiln. (If you've never done ceramics before, it's important that the object have a hole in it, or this really will happen.)."	15	1325	35		You put the sheep in the hole of the kiln and turn on the flames.	
窮	hard up	"Hard up = nothing but your body, living in a hole, with just a bow to hunt for your food."	15	1326	35		"Somebody so hard up for cash, the volunteered to explore a black hole with nothing but a bow."	
芳	perfumed	"She used a perfume so strong, that you can track her by following the direction of the smell of flowers."	7	493	19		"People always seem to overdo it with their perfume. It seems that whenever I am at school, somebody walks by with their cheap flowery perfume. If I close my eyes, I can actually use that floweriness as a compass - it tells me which direction they're in."	
放	set free	Go in any direction away from your taskmaster when you are set free.	8	496	19		"When slaves were set free from their masters, they set off in all directions… RTK2:　ホウ　放射　ほうしゃ(radiation)… Pure group: 倣979."	
丘	hill	Excalibur is the sword planted in a rock. Lesser known AXCAHILLBUR is the axe planted on top of a hill.	5	1329	35		At Capitol Hill proposals get axed on the floor.	
診	checkup	The doctor at my checkup was expressing words of concern about my umbrella shaped gut.	12	1724	45		"At a check-up the proctologist views an X-Ray. I say, is that shape an umbrella?"	
岳	Point	A point is a extra little hill at the top of a mountain. We'll call it 'Fireman's Point'.	8	1330	35		"This actually means a high mountain. So, to cater to the keyword, it's surely obvious (ahem) that if something gets such a fine title as Point, it must be more magnificent than the average mountain. It's as if there was a hill on top of an average mountain, adding to its height."	
増	increase	Prices always INCREASE for LAND that was FORMERLY cheaper.	14	502	19		Farmers work the land so they can INCREASE their formerly puny crop supply.	
浜	seacoast	"Seacoast -> Coast Guard -> ""water soldiers"" lined up on the seacoast defending our shores."	10	1332	35		Imagine Normandy after the strikes on the beach. The water of the entire seacoast dyed red with the blood of thousands of soldiers.	
糸	thread	"I also went with Spiderman. However, in the cases where this primitive appears under other primitives, as opposed to on the left (I think there are ~5 times in this chapter) I've opted to use a similar character: Venom. This helps keep the positioning clear, especially on such characters as dainty (#1363) and accumulate (#1364)."	6	1333	36		You'll be seeing this one a lot. Seriously.	
蚊	mosquito	The mosquito (an insect) knows only one sentence: Bzzzzz.	10	1728	45		Mosquitoes are the insect who love Scots in plaid kilts because it makes for easy access to the best parts.	
織	weave	"Spiderman weaves his way through the skyline while listening to his theme song on his ipod. It is played, of course, by kazoos."	18	1334	36		Play the kazoo magically and the thread will weave itself.	
斉	adjusted	The Scotsman goalkeeper adjusted himself. He reached down and adjusted the two things between his skinny fencepost legs.	8	1729	45		The manager climbed a ladder and adjusted the sentence on the sign…　RTK2:　セイ　斉唱　せいしょう(homophony)…　　　　　　　　　　　　Mixed Group (ｻﾞｲ): 剤1730　(ｻｲ): 済1731　斎1732.	
繕	darning	"After a day being virtuouos and keeping the city safe, Spiderman's outfit is in need of some repair. Luckily, as he can shoot out threads darning is very easy for him to do."	18	1335	36		"Darning is too obscure a word for me, I prefer to just think of it as repair. And obviously, repairing someones broken cloth things is a virtuous thing to do, and you need thread to do it."	
剤	dose	"When my medicine dose is way too large, I adjust it by cutting it into smaller pieces with my saber."	10	1730	45		"We had to adjust his dose slightly, after he went on a rampage with a sabre."	
繁	luxuriant	"Important: Luxuriant does NOT mean luxurious, as the other stories indicate. Definition: abundant or lush in growth, as vegetation. When Venom realized he couldn't beat Spider-Man in a fair fight, he showed his cleverness by spraying venom all over Spider-Man's luxuriant garden."	16	1337	36		"Venom is covered in a luxuriant and surprisingly clever symbiotic suit, but it's also the taskmaster for his every evil act."	
済	finish	"When the goalkeeper finishes the game, he drinks a lot of water and adjusts himself."	11	1731	45		Finish him! Subzero adjusts the water in your body and crushes you into a few million pieces.	
独	single	The bachelor's apartment looked like it had been attacked by a pack of wild dogs. There were even insects in the kitchen. No wonder he's single!	9	522	21		A SINGLE guy is a WILD DOG who BUGS many women.	
己	self	"This kanji looks like the ""s"" of ""self"", looking at its own reflection in a mirror (reversed sideways), as if pondering about his ""self""."	3	525	21		"When Superman looks at himself in the mirror, this is what he sees on his chest."	
塁	bases	Playing baseball in a rice field with sparklers stuck into the ground to act as bases.	12	1734	45		"The traditional New Year's baseball game in Japan is held at midnight in a rice field. They stick sparklers in the ground for the bases so they can be seen, and to be more festive."	
羅	gauze	"Lots of girls in Japan wear gauze patches over one eye made of course white fibers. They think it is cute, and I must admit, I have come to think so too."	19	1342	36		"Rocky won the match but left with a nasty eye injury, and needs some gauze for it. I use a modified version of the Rocky theme song to remember this one -- ""the eye and the fiber""."	
胞	placenta	"Imagine a newborn baby, fresh out of the womb, being entirely wrapped by the long piece of flesh, called a placenta, that once fed him."	9	531	21		Placenta is flesh/part of the body wrapped around the foetus.	
緒	thong	"Spiderman has a secret fetish, he likes nothing better than to dress his lovedoll in a thong. Wierd, eh!"	14	1344	36		"Instead of puppet I like to think of ""someone"" as ninja (since it is the second kanji in ninja). A ninja must be able to steal a thread from a woman's thong without her noticing."	
続	continue	"Even though Peter Parker has become Spiderman, he continues to sell pictures that he takes as a photographer."	13	1345	36		"Here's how Spiderman comics sell: At the end of the comic they leave with with a cliffhanger and say ""to be continued"". In fact, the japanese verb 続く is used in comics and tv shows to mean ""to be continued"". They have adapted the model created by Spiderman to hook the readers so that they can sell more comics."	
率	ratio	"It's quite mysterious how each sparkler gives of sparkles at a precise ratio of ten to one. Physicists have been studying this effect for decades, known as the Sparkler Effect, and using it to explain why stars look like sparklers in the night sky."	11	1737	45		Keep separate from proportion. Gandalf is trying to adjust the aspect ratio of his monitor from 4:3 to 16:9 so that he can watch Lord of the Rings in widescreen format. He's poking around the inside of his monitor with a magnesium needle when he causes a short circuit which sets his needle on fire making the needle look just like a sparkler.	
遂	consummate	This is still Miss Piggy only she's gotten horny (as she often does) and now she's pursuing Kermit to help her consummate her desires.	12	540	21		"In association with pursue (#539), our sow has tracked down a suitable mate, they've consummated their relationship, and now the little sow is all grown up into a boar with horns."	
絞	strangle	Spiderman hates going to parties and having to mingle. He wants to strangle someone after just a little small talk.	12	1348	36		"Darth Vader, who was mingling among the crowd with his hat, is spotted by Spiderman. Spiderman jumps at him to teach the villain for coming to New York. Darth Vader catches him in mid air and strangles him with the force..."	
摂	vicarious	"Now that I'm a responsible adult, I have to get my vicarious thrills from watching stupid people put sparklers up to their ears and burn their fingers."	13	1739	45		I put my fingers in my ears to avoid going deaf while getting a vicarious thrill from watching kids light off sparklers and fireworks on Chinese New Year.	
給	salary	"Spiderman wanted to be a salaryman, but the suit just didn't fit him."	12	1349	36		Spiderman has so little free time in his schedule that he is unable to fit in a job with a good salary.	
央	center	Youve got the st bernard dead centre in your sights (the box).	5	1740	45		"The center of a dog's universe is his mouth: bark, eat, bite. What a life! RTK2:　オウ　中央　ちゅうおう(center)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　Semi-Pure Group　(ｴｲ): 英1741　 映1742."	
絡	entwine	"When threads become entwined, each thread is tangled to another."	12	1350	36		Spiderman entwines each villain in a tangled mess of spidersilk.	
終	end	This winter is so cold that spiderman's web gets brittle! Could this be the end of spiderman?	11	1352	36		Spider-Man can't wait for winter to end. Going outside in spandex isn't exactly toasty.	
映	reflect	"In the solar system, the Sun is the central source of all light, everything else just reflects it."	9	1742	45		"A solar power plant consists of thousands of mirrors reflecting the sun's rays, concentrating the energy on a focal point at the centre. See here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solar_Two."	
級	class	"This Kanji is the same ones used in the Japanese Language proficiency tests; i.e. ikkyuu (一級) The Kanji doesnt describe class as in a ""class of students"" or ""classroom,"" but rather a grade of quality or ability. ---------- Spiderman is taking the JLPT Level 1. In desperation he REACHES OUT to grab his friend's answer sheet next to him, who seems to be doing well. The other test takers are obviously a class above him. Looks like this test is above his class of knowledge."	9	1353	36		Spiderman with his arm stretched out showing the class how he produces webs.	
着	don	A pullover is donned by pulling wool over your eyes.	12	555	21		Someone who is donning a disguise does that in order to pull the wool over your eyes.	
焦	char	"When I put the turkey over the oven fire, it always ends up being charred beyond recognition. I'm not a very good cook."	12	557	21		Char could be any meat over oven fire. So why is it a turkey in this kanji? Because charred turkey is what sticks out most in your mind as the thing that ruined Thanksgiving dinner.	
准	quasi-	"Quasi-modo, the famous hunchback of Notre-Dame wasn't actually a hunchback at all!! He used a frozen turkey to make a hunch!"	10	560	21		An iced turkey is only quasi-as-good-as fresh turkey.	
紡	spinning	Spiderman can spin his webs in any direction.	10	1357	36		"""You keep me spinning right round, baby right round, like a compass baby."" Spidey is making a retro 80s music video, spinning right round on his giant compass, singing his favourite song."	
準	semi-	"At the turkey fighting semi-final, turkeys are injected with drugs via needles and splashed with water to help them last the match."	13	564	21		"The anhinga, or water turkey, has a needle-like nose, so really it's only a semi-turkey http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anhinga."	
紹	introduce	Spiderman seduces all the girls he's introduced to.	11	1359	36		"Peter Parker did a terrible job of seducing MJ. Spiderman however, seduced her as soon as they were first introduced."	
蛮	barbarian	The barbarian picks an apple from above and eats it even though there is a worm (insect) in it.	12	1747	45		Barbarians eat apples with worms still in them.	
経	sutra	The word ‘sutra’ literally means a rope or thread that holds things together. Here we see that it is a spool that is holding the threads together.	11	1360	36		"Spiderman is intriqued by some of the positions of the karma sutra, but reluctant to take part in an sutra orgy as he'd have to reveal his soiled underwear."	
恋	romance	The romance between Snow White and Prince Charming started when Snow White took a bite of poison apple and her heart stopped.	10	1748	45		A childhood romance: a boy takes a red apple to school to try to win the heart of his beloved.	
紳	sire	"Monkeys are very adept at swinging around trees. But when they met Spiderman, who could swing around even better than they could, they all quickly addressed him as sire."	11	1361	36		Spiderman married a monkey and sired a brood of spider-monkeys.	
羽	feathers	Pictograph. Easy enough.	6	573	21		These days the biggest concern in airline safety is ICE on the WINGS of the plane. Birds that fly long distances also have to worry about getting ICE on their FEATHERS.	
翌	the following	"Your feathers would also stand up if you were a hen in a slaughter house and you heard: ""The following!""."	11	575	21		"""The following segment is sponsored by...Swiffer - who make excellent feather dusters for cleaning your vases""."	
累	accumulate	"When you accumulate knowledge in your brain, neural pathways are constructed. All those pathways end up like a huge ball of thread tangled together. The more knowledge you accumulate the more threads you throw into the mix!!"	11	1364	36		"(dingomick) Venom is upset because Spidey is just that much brainier than he is! He chooses to accumulate as many brains as he can, snatching them out of people's heads and storing them on top of his own, till there's just one massive brain on top of his head!"	
横	sideways	"A tree went all yellow. It died and fell down, ending up sideways."	15	1751	45		"In a horrible accident, a yellow schoolbus gets wrapped sideways around a tree."	
索	cord	"Spiderman has been captured and given the ultimate torture: they forced a crown of needles on his head and attached it to an electrical cord, which they are about to plug into an outlet..."	10	1365	36		"(modified akrodha's great story) VENOM has been captured by scientists and is being experimented on: they forced a CROWN of NEEDLES on his head and attached it to multiple electrical cords, which are connected to a big machine."	
団	group	"When you are admitted into a group like the Yakuza, you're well and truly done (だん) for. You must stick to the group like glue, and you will be pent-in for life, never being able to leave."	6	582	22		"A pent-in group will naturally be more cohesive, or ""glued together.""."	
綿	cotton	"Spiderman's polyethylene suit starts to ride up after a while, so he always looks forward to the white cotton towels he wears while lounging around his apartment."	14	1367	36		Spiderman has a dark secret - he has stolen all the white cotton towels from every hotel he has ever been in.	
色	color	Bound up in the Rubik's cube are the 6 different colours.	6	1753	45		Ever look closely at mosaics? They contain a bunch of images bound up into a larger one. It seems amazing until you realize that the only quality of the smaller images that really matters is their colour.	
絹	silk	Spider-man loves to run his mouth all over Mary Jane's silky flesh.	13	1368	36		Spiderman has little squares in the flesh of his wrists that the silk webbing comes out of.	
繰	winding	"After stopping a bank heist, Spiderman is seen winding his webbing around the stolen goods to trap them in a tree until the police arrive to take them back."	19	1369	36		"Tip: goods + wood/tree : This combination appears 4 times. I suggest calling it ""furniture"" (a common type of wooden goods). REF: parch (#215) , maneuver (#671), winding (FRAME 1369), seaweed (#2035). Story: You are winding up your new furniture using a thread to get it through the window of your high-rise apartment."	
艶	glossy	"To print something with bountiful colour, they use glossy paper."	19	1755	45		Glossy prints bring out bountiful colors more so than matte...　　　　　RTK2:　エン　艶聞　えんぶん(love affair).	
継	inherit	Spider-Man is hooked on rice--it's all he inherited from his Uncle Ben. (thanks Nukemarine).	13	1370	36		"A poor chinese fisherman could expect to inherit: the thread for his pole, a hook for catching something to eat, and some rice to live off of. (not concentrating on stroke order, sorry if that throws anyone off). (Adapted from bigloui,12-4-2006)."	
緑	green	Spiderman's nemesis the Green Goblin is in a slump; He's replaced his glider with a broom and is throwing grains of rice instead of bombs.	14	1371	36		"Tie green thread around the broom that you use for sweeping up grains of rice (ie the kitchen broom) to distinguish it from the other colour threaded brooms that you might use in say the toilet, or the garage etc..."	
肥	fertilizer	"PART OF YOUR BODY excretes something that is commonly used for FERTILIZER. Sometimes this process is slow, so you solve a RUBIK'S CUBE while you sit and wait."	8	1756	45		"If you're sick, a part of your body may produce fertilizer that makes a colorful mosaic."	
縁	affinity	"There once was a lonely little pig that constantly followed Spiderman, always nuzzling his leg and oinking tenderly. Spiderman finally caved in and decided to keep the little pig under one condition: the pig was to take a broom and sweep up all of Spiderman's leftover threads after having fought crime. The pig felt such affinity for Spiderman, he happily accepted—and did a good job too."	15	1372	36		Spiderman has no affinity for a broom hence his house is a pig sty.	
甘	sweet	Little red riding hood is carrying around a wicker basket filled with sweet baked cookies for granny.	5	1757	46		Girls are kinda sweet and sexy until they reach their twenties. So 20 minus ONE.	
網	netting	"Spiderman traps The Rhino under the hood of his famous netting, where even Rhino's horns can not break free, in fact if the netting did not dissappear after a few hours then Rhino might even perish in there."	14	1373	36		You use a 糸 to make a net shaped like a hood. A stray animal got caught in it by its horns and perished.	
志	intention	A samurai's intentions always come from the heart.	7	600	22		Gentleman always have hearts full of good intentions.	
紫	purple	"Venom starts to choke on a spoon. He's about to get it out, when you manage to stop the spoon from getting out, so he turns purple, as he chokes, and dies."	12	1375	36		"Why is your ass purple? Well, I stopped and sat for a bit on a pile of thread... (I guess it was freshly dyed)."	
某	so-and-so	I had the same idea as fuabrisu. A generic person is described here as having body sort of like a tree trunk and head sort of like a wicker basket.	9	1759	46		Two girls with a lollipop in a tree gossiping' so-and so did this.' 'really? so-and what did she do' ' o she is sooo wrong..'.	
縛	truss	"Spidey received good word that the acupuncturist working down the road was actually the evil Doctor Octopus! Spidey headed over to the clinic, and trussed the acupuncturist Doc Oc up using the maniac's own metal limbs!"	16	1376	36		"Because people are so afraid of the procedure, string has to be used by the acunpunturist to truss up his victims, er, patients."	
恩	grace	"Grace here is a favor freely bestowed, like a good deed. So to remember this kanji, go to the local shelter, find a big dog pent up in a small cage and adopt him. That will cause a warm feeling in your heart!"	10	606	22		"This kanji tells us that wherever heart is the cause, grace is the consequence. Think of “grace” as a graceful act: something benevolent that comes from the heart."	
想	concept	The concept of love is basically two hearts inter-acting as one.	13	609	22		''Inter-heart'' is a new therapy CONCEPT that helps macho guys share their feelings with each other.	
後	behind	"Column of walking legs (caterpillar) getting into a cocoon, about to leave its past self behind."	9	1379	36		"after a grub goes through the cocoon stage, it leaves its walking legs behind for a life of flight."	
欺	deceit	Kasparov practices deceit by grabbing your rook while pretending to yawn.	12	1762	46		"Every day, a smuggler takes bushel baskets on donkeys across the border. But the border patrols can never arrest him for lack of evidence no matter how much they search the bushel baskets: they can't find whatever he is smuggling. What was his deceit? He was smuggling donkeys!"	
幽	faint	The villagers haven't the faintest idea that giant coccoons resting in the mountain are soon to hatch.	9	1380	36		Frodo and Sam fainted in the mountains and the spider wrapped them in cacoons.	
棋	chess piece	Chess piece = wooden rook.	12	1763	46		Ever seen those huge chess games in parks? The large wooden chess pieces need to be carted in a shopping trolley.	
幾	how many	"At the Mexican fiesta, there is a coccoon eating competition. How many coccoons can one person eat? No one has managed more than two before giving up..."	12	1381	36		How many went to the party? Two aliens and one person (I feel sorry for that person).	
寡	widow	"The new widow sits in the house, her head in her lap (the extended stroke), her dagger in her husband."	14	617	22		"The house's head, her husband, was murdered with a dagger. You can still see the drops of blood above the dagger. She is now a widow."	
玄	mysterious	What could be more mysterious than a cocoon in a top hat trying to sneak in...? (Pimitive: GANDALF).	5	1383	36		The invisible man in his top hat and cocoon of white bandages is the most mysterious man in the world.	
期	period	The slowest remote chess game ever: a one month period between every move.	12	1765	46		The girl's panties are all in the bushel basket as it's that time of the month again... her period.	
畜	livestock	The livestock are disappearing! I've placed Gandalf over the rice field to protect them.	10	1384	36		"This mysterious rice field grows not only rice, but livestock too! Picture little pigs and chickens growing right out of the ground, among the rice plants. How bizarre!"	
碁	Go	Go is chess played with stones.	13	1766	46		"The ignorant gaijin put a rook on top of his opponent's stone when playing Go, much to the consternation of the Japanese players."	
蓄	amass	"One sneaky farmer wanted to amass a large collection of livestock. We all know that cows like to eat flowers, so he planted lines of flowers leading to his own fields. The livestock followed the lines, eating the flowers one by one, and amassed in his field."	13	1385	36		"Kobe beef. The Japanese amass a fortune pampering livestock feeding them flowers, offering beer, playing music and giving them massages… RTK2:　チク　蓄電池　ちくでんち(battery cell)…　Pure Group:　畜1384."	
弦	bowstring	"A magic bow that only Gandalf can yield: there is no bowstring on it, and he uses his magic to fire arrows."	8	1386	36		A bow with a mysterious invisible bowstring.	
基	fundamentals	Fundamentals of chess: use the rooks to protect your ground.	11	1767	46		A Bushel-basket full of earth contains the fundementals of farming. i.e. earth.	
擁	hug	A mysterious turkey with human fingers wants to hug me... I will never go to Tokyo Disneyland again!	16	1387	36		Imagine Gandalf hugging a turkey....ouch! It bit off his finger!	
甚	tremendously	It's a tremendous match between the two chess-players. They are clearly eachother's equal.	9	1768	46		"These two bushel baskets are tremendously huge. But not only they are huge, they are also perfectly equal in size."	
滋	nourishing	"Water is doubly mysterious. It's in all our nourishment...and yet, it's really not nourishing at all."	12	1388	36		"Going off the idea of the right side meaning rapid growth/increase of small objects, I've decided to make the right side be Gremlins, those little mysterious creatures that double rapidly. Gremlins find water a little too nourishing, as it makes them instantly multiply."	
慕	pining	"Pining, yearn for... etc. Presumably for lost love. An easy one here, someone standing in the graveyard, placing an old valentine card amonst all the existing tributes."	14	633	22		"Morticia and Gomez (of the “Addams Family”) are spending their Valentine's Day at the graveyard, pining for each other's affection."	
磁	magnet	A magnet is a rock with two sides; one that mysteriously pushes and one that pulls; doubly mysterious. (see astridtops' story).	14	1390	36		"I found some stones on the siamese twins. Turns out the stones were magnetic, and they weren't siamese twins at all!"	
堪	withstand	"Because I hid myself behind a huge dirt barrier I dug, I was able to withstand the tremendous nuclear blast."	12	1770	46		Plain old soil can withstand tremendous amounts of pressure.	
系	lineage	"(Primitive: DNA, a drop of looong spiraled thread that is the key to your lineage)."	7	1391	36		Spiderman's lineage (who his family is etc...) can be found in his DNA in a drop of blood. The villain that gets blood of Spidey will be able to find out who is family and lineage is. be carfefull spidey...	
貴	precious	"Frodo kept the precious in the purse but did a switch with some worthless shells when he went to sleep. Heres gollum opening the purse ""ahhh my preciousssssss.....why you m***** *****!!!!!."	12	1771	46		Inside your purse is all of your money and your keys (き) etc. All of your precious valuables.	
係	person in charge	"Mister T gets a DNA test, and discovers that he was meant to be the person in charge after all."	9	1392	36		The person in charge usually must come from a long standing lineage of persons in charge.	
議	deliberation	Careful deliberation produces words of righteousness.	20	642	23		"At the worst of times, a jury's deliberation descends into a war of words between competing self-righteous, power-tripping bastards."	
懸	suspend	The prefecture has suspended all DNA research for heart disease because of corruption. All involved will be suspended by their wrists.	20	1394	36		The prefecture has suspended all research into inheritable (lineage) heart disease.	
遣	dispatch	Dispatch all cars and chase the maestro! He's gone crazy and stolen a ladies purse!	13	1773	46		"Apart from meaning DISPATCH, this kanji can mean ""to give (to someone lower than you),"" ""to do,"" and to even ""have intercourse."" STORY: The MAESTRO is on the ROAD waiting for a pimp to DISPATCH some new ladies (lower than him) so that he can GIVE THEM money from his PURSE and then DO IT with them. Where is the MAESTRO'S baton? You don't wanna know..."	
却	instead	[instead; on the contrary; rather] Gone is the time for stamps - use e-mail instead.	7	1395	37		If you tried to attach money to an envelope to pay for postage it would be GONE before it arrived at the post office. That's why we use STAMPS instead.	
舞	dance	The yakuza boss reclines in the oaken bathtub wearing his shades while his personal harem dances nakes for him.	15	1774	46		I learned nothingness (#1775) first because it is a very common kanji. Probably easier to think of this kanji in that context. Attractive dancers should dance wearing nothing but sunglasses.	
脚	shins	"Shins are the part of the body that one uses instead of one's eyes, for finding furniture in the dark. (Ouch!)."	11	1396	37		Shins are the part of the body that Japanese traditionally sit on instead of their asses.	
拓	clear the land	"A huge index finger coming down from the sky is kicking boulders of rock, clearing the land. Maybe it's the finger of God preparing a place for his little people to live."	8	651	23		"I imagine clearing the land in order to set up your tent after a long day of backpacking. Using your fingers, you pick up all of the rocks and get them out of the way so that you can get a comfortable night sleep. If you don't clear the land you can just picture the rock sticking into your back as you toss and turn all night long."	
拘	arrest	"You approach the thief from behind, stick your finger at his back to fake a gun, and say the phrase ""You're under arrest""."	8	654	23		Giving the police the finger and a colorful phrase is a surefire way to get arrested.	
服	clothing	"It's customary to cover the flesh with clothing, but some designs are so outrageous they're not bigger than a stamp that just covers your crotch."	8	1399	37		Modern clothing shows a lot of flesh -- some is practically no more than a postage stamp covering your crotch!	
粗	coarse	Refined rice [1535] can only be found in exclusive grocery shops. Coarse rice by contrast fills the supermarket shelves - don't go looking for anything else there.	11	1777	47		"Ugh, why does this shelf feel so coarse? Because it's made of rice, of coarse! Get it? Of coarse?? Hahahahahahahahahah god i hate my life."	
命	fate	"When you're born, your fate is measured, fitted, and stamped onto your soul. Good luck defying it."	8	1400	37		Mouth meets stamp. Mail the letter to the university and wait on fate…　RTK2:　メイ　一生懸命　いっしょうけんめい(with all one's might)　　　　　　　　ミョウ　寿命　　じゅみょう　　(span of one's life).	
租	tariff	The EU and US impose such high tariffs on food imports that third world wheat (the most basic of staples) never reaches first world supermarket shelves.	10	1778	47		"According to Henshall, this kanji originally represented the harvested rice (the wheat primitive) that farmers paid as a tithe. Its meaning today would seem to be very similar. Imagine the farmer putting aside some of his harvested wheat on a shelf in order to pay the tariff to his lord."	
令	orders	"(re: dingomick) ""These are your orders,"" declares the general while passing out documents at the meeting. As everyone started to leave, the general exclaims ""Oh wait! I need to certify these orders!"" and went around stamping each paper with his personal chop-seal."	5	1401	37		"""These are your orders,"" declares the general at the meeting as he stamps them with his chop-seal. (Primitive: chop-seal imaged as a papal ring, the one's they would press into wax as their official seal. Also a cattle brand.)."	
推	conjecture	"In mathematics, a conjecture is a mathematical statement which has been proposed as a true statement, but which no one has yet been able to prove or disprove. Have you heard of the Finger-Turkey conjecture ? It states that if turkeys had fingers, they would be able to count. Be sure to imagine a turkey with fingers at the tip of its wings, counting from one to ten."	11	663	23		"In the midst of conjecture on whether it was done or not, mom stuck her fingers in the turkey to check."	
齢	age	You know you are fast approaching a ripe old AGE when you get ORDERS from the dentist to get new TEETH.	17	1403	37		The tooth fairy has orders to stop giving money if a child is a certain age. RTK2:　レイ　高齢　こうれい(advanced age)…　　　　　　　　　　　　Semi-pure group: 　令1401　零1402　冷1404　鈴1406　(ﾘｮｳ): 領1405.	
阻	thwart	"In a last ditch effort to thwart the invaders of The Pinnacle, they push glass shelves over the edge onto their heads below."	8	1780	47		The shortness of the Japanese thwarts their attempts to reach the topmost (pinnacle) shelf without grabbing a chair.	
冷	cool	"To keep your water cool, just order some ice."	7	1404	37		The Japanese boss gives an order at the meeting: eat ice to stay cool (since they won't be running the air conditioning anymore).	
査	investigate	A whole team of cops is sent to investigate how a tree could grow on top of a shelf with no soil or water.	9	1781	47		"The result of the inverstigation of the missing Trees? Why, most of them had become shelfs!"	
領	jurisdiction	"Two cowboys are crossing a state limit. One says to him “Did you know that in this Jurisdiction there are Orders to get your head?”, so he takes out his gun and shoots him. He claims the reward afterwards. (Thanks Fuaburisu)."	14	1405	37		Orders are given by the head person in any jurisdiction.	
接	touch	"A pervert meets a woman. The pervert tries to touch the women with his lustful fingers. The woman takes a vase, lifts it over her head and smashes it on the pervert's head..."	11	672	23		CHIKAN!! These are the perverts who use their fingers to touch standing women on crowded trains.	
勇	courage	"I imagined some kind of initiation rite in old China, where every young man has to show his courage. They then receive a chopseal which is a mark of their courage."	9	1407	37		"Re: fuaburisu - The initiation rite in question is actually a reverse elbow chop to the brain, and you receive the chop seal if you have the power to withstand it. This initial imagery helps me with the altered chop seal and vertical placement."	
宜	best regards	"It seems like every time my Japanese friends send me their best regards, they accompany them with a gift. Over time, I've gotten so many that I had to buy a second house which contains nothing but several fancy shelves. Each shelf is dedicated to a certain friend of mine and contains every last one of their presents."	8	1783	47		We have a shelf in our house where we put Christmas cards from people who send best regards for the holiday season...　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ギ　便宜主義　べんぎしゅぎ(opportunism).	
通	traffic	"I bounce down the road on my pogo stick, easily getting through the dense traffic. (Note: New primitive: chop-seal + utilize = pogo stick. Because a chop-seal is long and thin with a rubbery bit at the end. If it were big enough, you could utilize it as a pogo stick). [Edit: pogo stick also appears in 1409, 1690, 2530]."	10	1408	37		Building on gorgon's story I now change mine to a much more silly and rememberable one. The Chinese police is using a helicopter to check and regulate the traffic. Hanging from the helicopter is a huge chopseal that they utilize to mark some of the cars that are causing trouble on the road.	
刑	punish	This kanji is for severe punishment. A man has his shackled hands placed on a wood block and they're chopped off with a saber. No more stealing bread in the Middle East...	6	679	23		In Arab countries they punish theives by cutting off BOTH HANDS with a SABRE.	
疑	doubt	"(Katsuo) You come at the zoo entrance. 'Here sir, a spoon to feed the animals.' cool 'and a dart(gun) in case stuff go wrong' ....' please chop-seal (sign) here for in case of accidents the zoo is not responsible.' 'lion feeding time is. bla bla' You are having serious doubts about if you still want to go into this zoo."	14	1410	37		"A very doubtful story: At the entrance to my local zoo they issue you with a special spoon (to feed the animals) and a dart gun (to defend yourself in case of animal attack). You must then hanko (seal) a document to say you’ve received both these items, only after which will they let you enter the zoo. (Oh, and if you forget your hanko, I doubt they’ll let you in)."	
並	row	"This is a simplification of 竝, a ideogram of two people standing in a row."	8	1785	47		"Hint : as a primitive I use the image of a rowing boat. In a rowing boat people sit in rows, but also side-by-side (another meaning of the kanji), working together (yet another meaning of this kanji). Note : there will also be a kanji for ""rowboat"" coming at frame 1876. The rowing boat is associated with the sport, and is a primitive, while the kanji for ""rowboat"" has a generic meaning of ""a small boat"". In any case, the kanji for ""rowboat"" will not appear as a primitive in the book."	
擬	mimic	"Ask a MIMIC to give an impression of DOUBT, and he will no DOUBT scratch his head with his FINGER."	17	1411	37		I doubt you can mimic all these animals with just your fingers: http://www.google.com/search?q=%22Raymond+Crowe%22+Letterman (shadow puppets -- you'll love it!).	
普	universal	People at Universal Studios wait in rows so long that the sun goes down.	12	1786	47		"To me, row is way too close to file (#812), so I'm adopting Fab's meaning of rowboat from the previous frame. Universal Studios went through a number of logo animations before settling on the one they are most famous for: the letters UNIVERSAL orbiting the Earth. One of the most ridiculous of these involved a man rowing himself in a boat around the sun."	
凝	congeal	"I doubt that the jello would congeal sitting on the counter, so I placed it in the icebox."	16	1412	37		Is there any doubt that ice is congealed stuff?	
譜	musical score	Musical scores are in a universal language.	19	1787	47		"A musical score can be read, but not like ordinary words. Music is a universal language."	
範	pattern	This pattern made of bamboo is for a new model of car designed to leave as small an ecological fingerprint as possible.	15	1413	37		"How about a serial killer who's pattern is to drive by the victim and club them with a bamboo stick. Finally he makes a mistake and drops the bamboo stick, which is dusted for fingerprints."	
扱	handle	"See suck (#689): if it's too big to handle, just use your fingers instead..."	6	690	23		One of the first thing a baby can do with his hand is to reach out and grab your finger as if it was a little handle.	
厄	unlucky	"Seeing some finger prints at the edge of a cliff, I wondered who that unlucky person was."	4	1415	37		Sherlock Holmes is very unlucky: he just fell off a cliff while he was looking around for fingerprints.	
顕	appear	"One day a row of Suns appeared in the sky, turning everyone's heads upwards."	18	1789	47		"Clouds were covering the sky for months now. Rows upon rows of people spent whole days with their heads turned upwards, waiting for sun to appear."	
危	dangerous	"You're bound up by ropes to an unlucky person. It's dangerous, because whatever happens to him will happen to you too."	6	1416	37		"While rock climbing you are bound to the cliff by just your fingerprints, which is why it's so dangerous."	
繊	slender	"Spiderman has to stay slender, so during thanksgiving, he keeps away from the long row of food."	17	1790	47		"At the time of Thanksgiving, there's a row of all sorts of food on the table, which you mustn't eat if you want to stay as slender as a thread."	
宛	address	Your address should be displayed on your house and mailbox.	8	1417	37		"For the primitive: This is a hi-tech Japanese mailbox, it automatically lights up in the evening, and has a biometric fingerprint scanner. --- Each house's address, even if it's hard to see in the evening, is like its own unique fingerprint."	
腕	arm	"Like in Memento, I tattoo my address on my forearm flesh so I don't forget it."	12	1418	37		"In Iraq people are having their addresses tattooed on their bodies, usually their arms, so they can be identified if they are killed. (true story)."	
霊	spirits	"After raining for two days in a row, you plead with the SPIRITS for some relief. (Adapted from johnskb,21-5-2006)."	15	1791	47		"When it rains, two worlds come together and spirits can be seen in the forest, dancing in a row."	
苑	garden	"Japanese ""gardens"" aren't anything more than a pot of flowers on top of the mailbox."	8	1419	37		"My mailbox is actually right in the middle of my garden, which kind of sucks since the mailman has to trample all my flowers to get to it."	
業	profession	A truly gruesome profession: an abattoir worker. Where the carcasses are upside down in a row that have not yet been cut up into sausages and steaks.	13	1792	47		"The legal profession was turned upside down when Row vs. Wade determined that a fetus is not yet a human…　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ギョウ　営業中　えいぎょうちゅう(""Open for Business"")　　　　　　　　　　ゴウ　宿業　　しゅくごう　　(accumulated karma)."	
怨	grudge	I couldn't drop my grudge against him. So I put a severed pig's heart in his mailbox. He got the message.	9	1420	37		I had a little grudge against my ex-girlfriend and her new boyfriend...so I ripped out his heart (like in indiana jones and the temple of doom) and then I left it in her mailbox.	
投	throw	"Well, you usually use your fingers to throw objects used as missile weapons. Easy. By the way, for those of you looking for a less anachronistic image for the missile primitive as a modern rocket, try a slingshot. it's a crotch (originally a tree branch) that sends missile projectiles flying into/like the wind. And for this present kanji, it is something you naturally use with your fingers..."	7	706	23		"If you use the primitive ""semen"" (flying in the wind from your crotch) instead of missile then all kanjis with this primitive will hilariously create a perfect story."	
卵	egg	The Easter Bunny dropped an egg on my desk and got yolk all over my receipts and stamps.	7	1422	37		The 卯sign of the hare (#2041) hides eggs in his ears for Easter...　RTK2:　ラン　卵巣　らんそう(ovary).	
僕	me	"Mr. T also finds himself as one of the HUSBANDs, whose wives have had them hung UPSIDE DOWN IN A ROW. But when his wife comes up to punish him, he pleads, “It’s ME, Baby. I wasn’t behaving badly like these other foo’s.”."	14	1794	47		"Building on johnskb: Although it goes against the Heisig method, this story is a lot easier to remember when you know it's the kanji for ""boku."" Males usually use either ""boku"" or ""ore"" (instead of ""watashi"") to refer themselves. ""Boku"" is slightly boyish and soft; ""ore"" is rough & tough. Mr. T would definitely use ""ore"" -- but when he's one of the husbands hung upside down in a row about to be punished by his wife, he puts on a sweet act and switches to ""boku"" when he pleads ""come on baby, it's ME!""."	
留	detain	"Got a receipt for that dagger, son? If not, we're going to detain you and send you to work in the rice fields."	10	1423	37		The use of RANSOM NOTE (think of a receipt with a dagger through it on a door) works great with DETAIN. Here the RANSOM NOTE says that the girl has been DETAINED in an undisclosed location. To get her back take the RANSOM to a empty FIELD.	
枝	bough	The tree's primary branch is known as the bough.	8	713	23		"Differentiate between BOUGH and branch (#711): 'branch' is smaller, and can also refer to the branch of a store (支店), which has nothing to do with a tree. But a BOUGH is a main part of a tree, perhaps where the trunk splits into several large boughs, and so it logically utilizes the 木 radical."	
印	stamp	"Before sticky backs, they had to staple stamps to letters."	6	1425	37		"Aaaagh, this old stamp doesn't stick! Okay I'll just staple it."	
供	submit	"It took over 600 frames for Mr T to make (#1142), the Ark, but when he was finally done, he cast his saw aside and submitted the Ark to Noah for his approval. ""I pity the foo who doesn't climb aboard this ark,"" said Noah to his friend."	8	1796	47		"Mr. T submits a resume together with his application. ""I pity da foo don't got no resume!"" he says."	
興	entertain	"To me, this looks like a pictograph of a road leading to the big city (see the buildings?) where there are plenty of places to be entertained. Unfortunately in this city, every store is the same: staples. What tools! [ayoung24]."	16	1426	37		"Photographically, this kanji simply looks like a set of two speakers (the staples primitives) between the sub-woofer (primitive for same) -- all this as a tool to entertain a group of drunks at a club."	
異	uncommon	"Noah's Ark is so uncommonly large, he can even fit a rice field on top to feed the animals."	11	1797	47		"It's uncommon to find a pair of together twins who are connected at the brain! When such a set does turn up, they are inevitably showcased on TV."	
酉	sign of the bird	The sign of the bird on this whiskey bottle is of course the Famous Grouse blended Scotch.	7	1427	38		"Normally birds fly south, but one bird flew west. People were worried about it and kept asking ""Is there any sign of the bird – you know, the one that flew west?""."	
反	anti-	"I think of an anti-hero (Dirty Harry etc.) for this primitive, whose trademark for disposing of villians is not an honorable fight, but a kick in the crotch and then a shove off a cliff (perhaps whilst the villain's back is turned)."	4	722	23		Many cultures are so anti-sex you'd think they just want people to throw their crotches over a cliff.	
返	return	Pretty obvious: to return is to turn back on the road you're on and go the opposite way.	7	725	23		"In ""The Return of the anti-hero"", Clint Eastwood kicks the villain in the crotch, pushes them off the cliff and onto a busy highway. A tiring movie franchise to say the least...."	
酵	fermentation	The secrets of fermentation are passed to the son who displays the most filial piety.	14	1430	38		"Since filial piety is all about respecting ones elders, and the older a whiskey bottle is (i.e. the time it have spent undergoing fermentation) the more respect you should give it, the meaning of this kanji becomes clear. If it doesn't, sink back some whiskey and it will."	
港	harbor	"During a deluge, all the poor snakes get washed into the harbour."	12	1800	47		"All throughout the deluge Noah had been kicking himself for forgetting to bring any snakes onto the Ark. It wasn't until the deluge had finished, and Noah had brought the Ark safely back to the harbour that he realised that the snakes had been under the Ark all along."	
酷	cruel	It's cruel to pour alcohol down a cow's mouth.	14	1431	38		Offering whiskey to people to encourage them to make revelations is cruel.	
暴	outburst	"Having spent all day stringing together grains of rice he suddenly had an outburst, ""I can take it any longer!""."	15	1801	47		Noah was having an outburst after being at sea for 40 days and 40 nights and running out of rice grains to eat. Then the sun suddenly burst out in an outburst over the Ark and there was an outburst of cheering.	
酬	repay	"Imagine a different kind of tax refund - instead of money, the state repays you with whiskey."	13	1432	38		Hint: bottle deposit refund - the state will repay the recycling deposit for each alcohol bottle returned.	
酪	dairy products	"To stay healthy, Dr. Phil told me to have some dairy products with each bottle of whiskey I drink..."	13	1433	38		"In an attempt to increase sales of dairy products, the grocery store is giving away a free miniature whiskey bottle with each dairy product you buy."	
爆	bomb	"Actually means explosion, like an outburst of fire."	19	1802	47		"Bombs make fiery outbursts. It's almost too logical, this one."	
酢	vinegar	Drinking alcohol that's turned to vinegar feels like a saw going down your throat.	12	1434	38		"I spent ages sawing that whiskey bottle open, but when I got in, it had all turned to vinegar!"	
恭	respect	"Noah feels like he gets no respect from the other passengers on the Ark, but they all make him Valentine's Day cards to show how much they respect what he's done for them."	10	1803	47		If you wanna stay together you have to show your valentine respect.	
酔	drunk	God you're drunk! How many whiskeys did you have? 9? 10?	11	1435	38		Whiskey with 90 percent alcohol will get you drunk. I don't care who you are.	
鉱	mineral	Elbonium: a new mineral found in wide caves shaped like elbows and made of metal.	13	741	23		A wide range of metals are classed as minerals.	
酸	acid	The prostitute carries an old whiskey bottle filled with acid to throw at any difficult Johns.	14	1437	38		"Dealing alcohol requires a license, dealing acid requires fast legs (to run from the police)."	
殿	Mr.	Mr. President! We all stand here together under a national flag. One thing is certain: we'll never give in. We are launching nuclear missiles now to implement mutually assured destruction protocol.	13	1805	47		"(+synewave) Noah looks on in disbelief as Mr. and Mrs. Smith board the Ark, start waving their flag everywhere and blasting everything in sight with a missile launcher."	
猶	waver	The waver for this kanji means to hesitate. I wavered before going into the bar with a bunch of horned wild dogs drinking whiskey straight out of the bottle.	12	1438	38		". Have you ever had Wild Dog brand whiskey? That stuff is downright evil. So evil, the bottle has horns, and you need to sign a waver before you drink it. Because of this warning you will surely waver as you bring the shot glass to your lips."	
井	well	"I nearly died by falling in a well. Actually, on two separate occasions. I'm glad to see they've added these fence posts. Now the well will be much safer."	4	1806	48		Have you ever seen an old fashioned japanese well? == http://cruises.about.com/od/southeastasiacruise1/ig/Osaka-Japan/Ancient-Well-at-Osaka-Castle.htm.	
尊	revered	I drank the Devil Whiskey and was revered by all. Too bad I had to have my anus glued shut from the damage it did to my digestive system...	12	1439	38		"Red Bull, the chieftain (#2906) is so revered in his clan that everyone sticks to him like glue."	
去	gone	"""Going, going, GONE!"", said the gravedigger as he shoveled soil onto the body's protruding elbow (the last bit left to cover)."	5	750	23		"If you want the soil stains gone from your clothes, then you'll need to put some elbow grease into cleaning them."	
頭	head	The head of the family sits at the head of the table.	16	1441	38		Mr Bean's head.	
耕	till	"If you just grow your christmas tree in a well, there will be no need to till the soil."	10	1808	48		"A man was tilling a new plot to plant xmas trees but his tractor hit an old covered-up well and fell halfway in, he's asking for a new tractor for xmas.."	
短	short	"He's so short, he can't even throw over a table while playing darts."	12	1442	38		"Sort of like ping pong, this kanji represents a game where you throw darts over a table at your opponent. The serve is rarely returned, so the games tend to be short.------------ This character apparently refers to duration, not just to height."	
亜	Asia	"In Asian countries, people use II chopsticks to get things into their mouths. Just imagine someone shoving a piece of sushi into their mouths with chopsticks."	7	1809	48		"A mouth barred up and not aloud to speak freely is the sign of asia (korea, China, pakistan etc)."	
豊	bountiful	The bountiful feast was so bountiful that it bent the table below it under its weight! いただきま〜す！.	13	1443	38		Her bust and bum was so bountiful I couldn't resist the urge to bend her over a nearby table and...	
育	bring up	"Bringing up your offspring means raising them from infant until they are meat ready to be harvested. What, cannibalism is in poor taste? Forget I ever brought it up. But bring up will forver be infant meat to me. I want my baby back baby back baby back ribs!"	8	759	23		I will bring up my infants to eat meat. I'll not endure any vegetarian children in my house!	
銃	gun	"""Everyone is allotted a metal gun"" (US constitution according to the NRA)."	14	762	23		What is a gun but a device for allotting pieces of metal? One for you - BANG!...One for you - BANG!...One for you - BANG!...One for you - BANG!...etc.	
樹	timber-trees	The hippies object to trees being cut down for timber. They have glued themselves to the timber-trees and are beating their drums.	16	1446	38		"Everyone likes to see big trees fall down. For this kanji imagine hundreds of spectators glued to their chairs, then a drum roll and then a cry of ""timber!!!"" as the huge tree crashes to the ground."	
角	angle	"A museum display of two walking sticks bound together under a glass canopy, showing the first device used to measure an angle."	7	1812	48		"The gates have been bound up together leaving no angle to get through...　RTK2:　カク　兎に角　とにかく(anyhow)　""horns on a rabbit""."	
皿	dish	Three dishes stacked side-by-side in a dishwasher.	5	1447	38		Pictograph of a dish with a three-layer cake slice on it.	
拙	bungling	"With fingers fumbling around trying to get the key in the door so he could exit, the bungling husband woke his wife as he tried to leave for a rendezvous with his mistress."	8	769	24		Horror movie cliche 769: Bungling victim's fingers fumble & bungle trying to open the exit door.	
盆	basin	The part of the kitchen sink in which you wash dishes in is the basin.	9	1449	38		Your mom yells at you to stop throwing dishes in the basin. She lifts up (to show primitive order) the broken parts to show you the damage you've done.	
解	unravel	"Did you know that you can unravel a cow? If you stick the dagger in at exactly the correct angle, the whole cow will just unravel."	13	1814	48		Unravel the mystery by determining at what ANGLE the SWORD went into the COW.	
再	again	The king has eaten too much and has to get a new belt again. See his fat rolls hanging over?	6	1815	48		"This is a belt with a non-adjustable jeweled buckle. Everytime you go back to the leathersmith telling him to move the buckle because you've packed on a few pounds (but that this is the last time!), he says ""Again?!? Weren't you just here last month?""."	
盗	steal	You are so poor you dont know where your next dish will come from all you know is that you will have to steal it.	11	1451	38		"The first thing to steal is the silverware; next, the dishes."	
崎	promontory	"This is “Cape Strange” from FRAME 153, only with mountain in place of soil. Interestingly, there is also 碕 which is made of the primitives stone and strange. The three kanjis 碕, 埼 and 崎 all have the same meanings and pronunciations. They have very little uses other than names, for which promontory is the clear winner with over 2300 uses in place and people names, while the other two kanjis account for less than 200 names."	11	778	24		"A promontory is a small, strange mountain that juts out into the sea."	
分	part	"When something is entered by a dagger, it ends up being cut in several parts."	4	781	24		"(This kanji also has the meanings of ""understand"" and ""minute""). It's important to understand that were you to enter an hour with a dagger and cut it into parts, those parts would be minutes."	
濫	overflow	Who's job is it to oversee the water level on the dam? It'ts overflowing!	18	1454	38		The overseer isn't doing his job and he lets the slaves overflow the sink!	
松	pine tree	"Following up with the ""entering public restrooms"" story for the right-hand primitive: public restrooms always reek of pine tree scented disinfectant."	8	785	24		"A pine tree is a public tree: they are frequently planted in public squares, in commemoration of the respect Conficius held for them."	
谷	valley	"This could be seen as a very accurate pictograph of another type of valley: a valley mouth open under the umbrella of inner labia, with the outer labia parted above. There are even more connections to be made among the primitive keywords and the visuals, but i will enter no further..."	7	788	24		Think of the classic anime 風の谷のナウシカ (Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind). We see Nausicaa entering the valley mouth gliding on an umbrella.	
盛	boom	Japan's economic boom turned their empty plates into full ones.	11	1457	38		The boom of satellite TV has made antennas turn into dishes.	
論	argument	"Right part: academic conference (a meeting, some of the attendees making notes in scrapbooks during presentation). Argument at academic conferences is naturally carried out using words."	15	1820	48		It's very difficult to present a good argument if you don't bring along a scrapbook with some key words jotted down to the meeting.	
塩	salt	"In the old days, salt was a worth alot, so it is not surprising to find someone reclining on the ground, mouth to plate, getting every last grain of that delicious salt."	13	1458	38		"Remember the mock sushi documentary that circulated a while ago: ""Because some feel that the shoyu was not salty enough, complementary salt dishes are provided on the ground outside the sushiya, you can recline and put as much as you desire in your mouth""."	
倫	ethics	"Mr. T talks about ethics at the academic conference. ""I pity the fool who gets caught plagarizing someone else's stuff!""."	10	1821	48		Mr. T has no ethics at the scrapbooking convention. He'll do whatever it takes to beat all those ladies.	
銀	silver	"Like gold, silver is a metal."	14	1459	38		"Not sure why Heisig find the right side so troublesome. My grandma's hairpin (just before long (#1920)) is made of silver, the metal that best reflects sun light. I'm sure you can see the flash from her hair as she walks by on a sunny day. Note that the two elements (sun and hairpin) share not only a horizontal stroke, but also the left vertical one. Therefore a bit odd stroke order."	
党	party	"Every major political party, if personified, would look like a giant outhouse walking around with human legs spewing out a constant stream of bullshit."	10	797	25		"Every political party is full of shit. But nobody ever says how they get that way. Well, here's your answer - a political party memer is in the outhouse, greedily chowing down on the contents inside. He's grown so accustomed to the taste that he's in all the way, and all you can see are his legs through the window. He'll come inside later to the auditorium to make a speech and spew everything out."	
裳	skirt	"Compared to pants, a SKIRT is the GARMENT to be wearing when you want to use one of those Japanese toilets. It makes it so much easier: you just walk in the OUTHOUSE hike it up, and do your business."	14	800	25		"Haven't you ever noticed that the men / women signs on the front of outhouses are sometimes very similar? The silhouettes are usually the same, but one will decidedly be wearing a garment in the shape of a SKIRT. Also, we've already learned the kanji for ""woman"", so if the signs are only in kanji you have no right to wander in and claim ignorance, perv!"	
即	instant	He scratches off the silver stamp and discovers that he is an instant winner.	7	1462	38		"For instant postal delivery, buy a silver stamp!"	
遍	everywhere	"Go down the road in Japan and you will find comics EVERYWHERE, newpaper stands, 7-11, Tsutaya, even the supermarket. Comics are everywhere here along the road."	12	1824	48		Go down any road in Japan and you'll find konbini hentai everywhere.	
爵	baron	"An eagle stole the baron's eye in the war, but now he has a silver coin glued in the socket instead."	17	1463	38		"Here we see an evil baron - a vulture perched on his shoulder, and a siver eye-patch glued to his eye."	
編	compilation	I took the compilation of covers of all my Spider-Man comics that I had saved in a scrapbook and glued them on my door.	15	1825	48		"My Spiderman comic book compilation is almost complete...only one left, and I may have to kill for it..."	
節	node	Counting the nodes on bamboo is an instant way to tell its age.	13	1464	38		A certain species of bamboo is considered the fastest growing plant in the world. A new node can be formed in an instant.	
殉	martyrdom	"Think of the early Christian martyrs who suffered martyrdom because of their faith. See them held in cells for 10 days (a decameron) before being fed to the lions. They appear before the chanting Roman crowds as bones to be devoured. Think of what was leftover after the lions finished them off....nothing, not even a pile of bones to bury."	10	809	25		The boney man martyred himself during his 10 day hunger-strike.	
限	limit	The speed limit at The Pinnacle is posted on silver signs.	9	1466	38		"At The Pinnacle, they limit how much silver you can have. Too much silver will lead to wrongfulness."	
典	code	Coding is a tool which you can use to bend the computer to your will.	8	1827	48		"Think ""codex"" (mnemonic help) or ""code of laws"", or even Leonardo Da Vinci's code. Here I see a codex as a tool used to bend the masses into submission. Picture a huge codex book lifted down on crowds to bend them down in submission. Another: if you bend to the code without asking questions, you are a tool!"	
眼	eyeball	T-1000. http://clicknothing.typepad.com/Images_Posts_2006/T1000.jpg.	11	1467	38		"Eyeballs made of silver. That's what they use to play pachinko with, isn't it?"	
氏	family name	Looks a bit like Ft => Family title => Family name.	4	1828	49		"The family name is important to me! Drop me from a building, torture me with a fishhook, I'm keeping my one family name. Hook me with a second fishhook, I refuse to change my family name."	
良	good	"With a drop of silver, the forces of good can vanquish the werewolves."	7	1468	38		"A drop of silver is good, but a whole bar of it is better!"	
取	take	"You put your ear next to a womans crotch...and somehow, from it, you hear the words ""Take me....""."	8	819	25		Fuaburisu's with a twist: You know that classic trick where someone pretends to take something out of an someone else's ear (such as a coin). Instead of a cigarette or a pen he pulls the person’s crotch out of their ear. Very painful!	
浪	wandering	Water is a good thing to have when you're out wandering.	10	1470	38		John the Baptist with a halo sprinkling water on people as he's wandering the wilderness.	
婚	marriage	Marriage is the day in this woman's life where she gets a new family name.	11	1830	49		Tip: Heisig later introduces the kanji 昏 dusk (#2451). Story: Never enter into marriage with a woman at dusk (wait until you see them in daylight). Note: This is an ancient proverb . . . (probably).	
娘	daughter	"Your daughter is a good girl......well, let's hope so... :-)."	10	1471	38		"Be careful not to think woman + angel here, which has already been seen for attractive (#430). Suggest using woman with a halo, as in an innocent girl, something that everyone sees their daughters as being."	
低	lower	Mr. T travels to Japan and knows he must bow lower when presenting his business card.	7	1831	49		A person bows low when presenting his business card.	
食	eat	That umbrella looks good enough to eat!	9	1472	38		Eating good food under huge umbrellas outside a beach front resort …　RTK2:　ショク　食堂　しょくどう(dining room)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　ジキ　 断食　だんじき(fasting).	
慢	ridicule	"I'll focus on the mandala primitive here. I guess Heisig chose this keyword for phonetic reasons and as a character it's the ""man"" in mandara/mandala (曼荼羅). A mandala is a graphic representation of the universe, here split in 3 planes of existance, the sun representing the cosmos, the eye represents the human observer, the crotch represents the animal instincts."	14	829	25		He' s often ridiculed for having his eye on crotches all day.	
飲	drink	"In Japan, the one thing I always seem to be lacking with my food is a properer sized drink. Instead I have to drink that shot glass of water."	12	1474	38		"When you lack food, just drink something to fill you up."	
底	bottom	I put all those useless business cards at the bottom of a cave.	8	1833	49		"At the bottom of the cave you find a meishi: ""LOST? DIAL 1-800-...""."	
飢	hungry	"The smell of cooked food wafts past you in the wind, making your stomach rumble and feeling hungry."	10	1475	38		"The wind blew away my food, so now I'm hungry."	
民	people	All the people of the world with all their family names shouting with their big mouths.	5	1834	49		"How many of you know what ""vox populi"" means?"	
餓	starve	"All those starving models in Hollywood - they want to eat, but their ego (about their appearance and trim look) makes sure they grin and bear it!"	15	1476	38		He starves for FOOD but his EGO won't let him beg.	
夫	husband	"Even though it is argued size is not important, I'm sure most women would like their husband to have a big one."	4	838	25		"Homer Simpson, as a primitive."	
館	Bldg.	This Bldg. is like all the other government buildings - they house bureaucrats who sit around sipping wine and eating expensive meals at the taxpayers expense.	16	1478	38		A building that eats bureaucrats!!!!!!!!	
捕	catch	"I was retreating from the battlefield. In the chaos, my friend threw his dogtags at me to give to his family. I managed to catch them with my fingers as the chopper was lifting off."	10	1836	49		"Dog tag: This is a wild animal track device. It has an arrowhead and screwdriver-shaped radio beacon. It's evidently fired in animals to track their movements. When animal has a dog tag, it's easy to catch it: just take a dog tag in your fingers."	
養	foster	"A sheep became the foster parent for a wolf pup, feeding it with milk. This story cannot end well..."	15	1479	38		"Judy Foster in ""The Silence of the Lambs"" is what Dr. Hannibal-the cannibal-Lecter would like to eat."	
浦	bay	The water of the bay washes all the dog tags up after the battle.	10	1837	49		"Otis Redding is sitting on the dock of the bay, looking over the water while clutching the dog tags of his fallen friend from Vietnam."	
飽	sated	My gluttony was only sated after I ate the hamburger AND the wrapper!	13	1480	38		This guy is sated only after eating the hamburger AND its wrapping!	
臣	retainer	Its a pictograph of a teeth with a retainer in the middle.	7	848	25		Retainer = A slave (for the purposes of this kanji.) This is a pictograph of a slave collar with two handcuffs dangling from it.	
概	outline	"A murder has been commited. A corpse was found under a tree. The police chalks the outline of the victim, an old silvered-haired waitress working at a restaurant nearby."	14	1482	38		"If you attempted to outline the biography of most famous actresses, you'd find that they have roots working as waitresses before getting their big break."	
舗	shop	A shop in an impoverished country is just a cottage with a dog tag identifying it.	15	1839	49		"Normal cottages (舎 actually means a building) don't have tags advertising their names, but shops do."	
慨	rue	"If you don't leave some silver as a tip, you will rue the day you earned the resentment of your waitress."	13	1483	38		The resentment of a waitress who gave up going to college to help her boyfriend (with his tuition). She rues that decision ever since she got dumped by him (just after he graduated).	
補	supplement	"I usually hear supplement in ""dietry supplement"". So you're given a cloak for extra fibre and dogtags for extra iron. Keeps you regular and stops you feeling tired and run-down."	12	1840	49		"The name and number printed on a soldier's cloak is a supplement to his main I.D. tag; his dog-tag, in helping identify the soldier."	
平	even	There's an even covering of water lilies on the pond at 金閣寺（きんかくじ） the Golden Pavilion in Kyoto.	5	1484	39		Frogs stay dry (#1648) 干 even as rain drops on their lily pads... RTK2:　ヘイ　　平均　へいきん(an average)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　ビョウ　平等　びょうどう(equality).	
邸	residence	"So fed up am I, I've finally built city walls around my residence to keep these Japanese from soliciting me with their business cards."	8	1841	49		"The business card says his residence is just to the left of the city walls. Can you find it? Yep, got it."	
呼	call	"I'm a lazy fisher, so I genetically engineered a lily pad with a fishing hook at the stem and a mouth to call me whenever it catches something."	8	1485	39		I just follow the calls from the frogs mouths on the lily pads to hook them.	
坪	two-mat area	A two-mat area is just about as much ground as you will need for a lily pond.	8	1486	39		A two-mat area is plenty of space for sleeping in a tent but you won't be comfortable unless the ground is even.	
郭	enclosure	"The city finally received the enclosure that it desperately needed, city walls to protect it against attacks from the tall kids."	11	1842	49		Even the tall kids can't get out of the enclosure that is the city walls.	
評	evaluate	Good evaluation should always be words of even fairness.	12	1487	39		You get an evaluation copy of MS Word because you want to evaluate whether it's worth buying the full version. At the end of the evaluation period the CD turns into a lilypad so you can't use it any more (an innovative new copy-protection trick).	
郡	county	"County cricket. ""I say old boy, you've hit that ball clear over the city walls. That's six and out!""."	10	1843	49		"You can take the good old boy out of county (and into the city walls), but you can't take the county out of the good old boy. Is that how the saying goes?"	
刈	reap	Sheaf? No. This is the sign of the X-Men. I'm going with Wolverine on this one.. Wolverine reaps the bad guys with his saber-like claws.	4	1488	39		The Grim Reaper's name is メリ(Mary)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　Rare or no official Chinese reading.	
加	add	"If you eat anymore, you will be adding more カロries. (katakana karo)."	5	867	25		"This is Power Mouth, the most annoying neighbour in the world who always has something to add."	
脇	armpit	"What part of the body has a very, very, very powerful smell? The armpit, of course!"	10	870	25		"(no important on yomi) The part of Conan's body that is three times more effective at defeating foes than his muscles are his stinky ARMPITs. [Note: Typically, when the flesh primitive is on the left side it refers to a body part - this helps distinguish in from threaten (#871)]."	
胸	bosom	Bosom is a Flesh part that should be bound up lest it provoke villian thoughts.	10	1491	39		"As you know, female comics villains are always binding the flesh of their bosom up in interesting ways. One has to wonder how these clothes stay on their body at all..."	
都	metropolis	"A vision of a futuristic METROPOLIS: standing at the window of your 400th floor apartment, hand in hand with your LOVE DOLL, gazing out at the gigantic CITY WALLS that you can never escape."	11	1846	49		"In a huge metropolis, it's hard not to feel like just someone within the city walls."	
離	detach	"I've finally met my arch-rival, the evilest of all villains. Finally, I'm about to fight him. But what's this? He's suspiciously quiet. I move to attack him, and his right arm falls off at the elbow. Strange. I walk up to him and detach his left arm. Very strange. I undo his belt, and take off his top hat... BLAST! It was just a decoy turkey!"	18	1492	39		"The most ridiculous character ever dreamt up for a film. DETACHO, a top-hat wearing villian who is able to detach his body parts for use as weapons. His most powerful weapons are his elbows, which he can detach, tie together with his belt and use as nunchucks. DETACHO has a sidekick turkey which he uses as an advanced scout as well."	
従	accompany	The line of viking soldiers is always accompanied by a horn mending specialist.	10	877	25		"I'm going to accompany the horny girl to her room so I can ""mend"" her."	
往	journey	"In Medieval Japan, going to see your lord was often a long journey."	8	880	25		"The fellowship of the ring is on a long journey through the depths of Khaz Modan. Imagine they walk through the hall of pillars, with only light being from their own candlesticks that. Soon they will meet much more light than they would ever want to..."	
鈍	dull	The metal hook is too dull to even pierce an earthworm....	12	1495	39		"From the earthworm's perspective, it most be pretty dull when you are put in a metal bowl, just waiting for being put on the hook on the fishing trip the next day."	
郷	hometown	"Your hometown is where you broke out of your cocoon (born), and where you left when your hair was silver (died), your whole life was spent inside the city walls."	11	1849	49		Your home town is where you earned enough silver to enable you to break out of your giant cocoon (leave home) and explore outside the city walls.	
辛	spicy	"Eating spicy food makes you stand up ten times faster than usual, 'cause you just need to get something to drink!"	7	1496	39		Eating spicy food makes you stand up as if you had sat on a needle.	
響	echo	People's voices are like echoes of sounds from their hometowns....you can always tell where they're from by how they talk.	20	1850	49		"My hometown is a ghost town, any sounds echoes and echoes."	
辞	resign	This guy's job is tasting the spicy curry at the local Indian Food Factory. He has to resign from his job before his tongue is rendered completely useless after all the spicy food that he has to try all day long...	13	1497	39		A lecherous male worker is forced to resign because the female employees compained about his spicy tounge.	
梓	catalpa	"The CATALPA is the tree that bears the SPICY Indian bean (NOTE - The Catalpa is also known as the ""Indian Bean"" due to the bean pods that grow from it)."	11	1498	39		The caterpillar's favorite tree is the catalpa because it tastes spicy.	
郎	son	The daughter is a good girl that grows up to be a woman. The son is a good boy that grows up to defend the city walls.	9	1851	49		A good son stays within the city walls so he can care for his parents…　RTK2:　ロウ　新郎　しんろう(bridegroom)…　Pure Group:　廊1852.	
宰	superintend	"Superintendant Chalmers is dining at Principal Skinner's house. He takes a bite of his meal which is unbelievably spicy. His wig pops off and he yells out: ""SKINNERRR!""."	10	1499	39		The superintendent of an old-age house has to make sure the food is never too spicy.	
廊	corridor	Your son plays in the corridor pretending he's exploring a cave.	12	1852	49		"(ロウ) I think of the corridor found in the cave that Yoda made Luke Skywalker walk through as part of his Jedi training in Empire Strikes Back. It was in this corridor that Luke met Darth Vadar, cut off his head and found himself behind Darth Vadar's mask. An early little hint that Luke was Darth Vadar's son."	
壁	wall	Did anyone else used to put ketchup packets on the ground and jump on them so they spattered on the wall?	16	1500	39		"Primitive for Ketchup: When the taste is too spicy your mouth has basically given up trying to handle it ..or in other words raised the white flag of surrender. But unlike war , putting Ketchup on it will usually solve the problem. Wall(dingomick); Did anyone else used to put ketchup packets on the ground and jump on them so they spattered on the wall?"	
稚	immature	Immature turkeys are stuffed with wheat to make it look bigger.	13	896	26		I can't believe I brought you to the fanciest restaurant in town and you asked for turkey on wheat...how immature is that?!	
秒	second	An hourglass filled with wheat counts time. A few wheat seeds drop every second.	9	899	26		I'll be with you soon... please wheat a few seconds.	
薪	firewood	"If your firewood is too new and still has flowers on it, it's unsuitable for burning. You need drier wood."	16	1503	39		"Sometimes, new firewood still has flowers on it."	
派	faction	"Drag + rag gave me trouble until I came up with zombie for it. The zombie population became more diverse, separating into different factions. One of them being the water Zombies."	9	1855	50		"The radical faction is almost eliminated, sir. They're living in the sewers dressed in rags and dragging their supplies."	
親	parent	I remember this one the way the Japanese do: a parent standing on top of a tree watching what his or her kid is doing.	16	1504	39		"A wise parent lets their kids learn. A kid wants to try to eat the red pepper plant, the wise parent says ""Try it and see for yourself""."	
利	profit	"In the middle ages there where only 2 ways for peasantry to make a profit. one by being a farmer, 2 to be a mercenary and live by the way of the sword."	7	906	26		1. Steal a bunch of wheat from a wheat field by cutting it down with your saber. 2. ????? 3. Profit!	
穂	ear of a plant	"The pilgrims only had wheat, so they asked the Indians to do them a favor and trade them for some ears of corn."	15	909	26		"The ""ear of a plant"" is the seed-bearing spike of a cereal plant, such as corn. In other words, it is the part which feeds us. Hence -- ""the ear (of a plant) is the favor of the wheat""."	
報	report	"Recall the fashion model wearing just a stamp over his crotch (clothing (#1399)). When he got happy, of course, it ended up in the news report."	12	1507	39		My child's book report got a happy stamp again :-)…　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　ホウ　電報　でんぽう(telegragh).	
逓	parcel post	(I prefer 2 towels over cornstalk and belt) - Have you ever wondered why your parcels always end up in such bad condition when you get them? Or why you never get them at all? That's because you've never looked at how they're actually delivered - each postman is given a load of parcel post and 2 towels to drag them down the road on.	10	1858	50		"In the ancient parcel post, they just would drag the packages behind them tied to cornstalks woven into a long belt down the road. It was a wonder than anything arrived intact."	
叫	shout	"There was a man in a village who had a special gift : whenever he shouted and screamed, his mouth became a cornucopia, overflowing with fruits and food of all sorts. Many of the locals thought he was a cruel man, always screaming at his wife, until they realised he was in fact very kind, and his gift brought prosperity to his family."	6	1508	39		You can hold a CORNUCOPIA up to your MOUTH (like a megaphone) to SHOUT lounder. Also notice that the shape of CORNUCOPIA implies the shouts are 4 letter words.	
段	grade	This is a military-grade staple gun! It can be loaded with real missiles.	9	1859	50		"In order to get your 1st grade, or first-dan (だん) black belt, you have to learn hand to hand combat with new weapons - first the grapple involving the staple gun, and then the missile deployment technique."	
糾	twist	"[twist; ask; investigate; verify] Stories full of twists are difficult to write, because of the cornucopia of threads the author has to manage."	9	1509	39		A Pepsi promotion where you twist off the cap to find pictures of your favorite heroes like Spider-Man or members of the Fantastic Four.	
鍛	forge	"As a discriminating metalsmith, I use the highest grade metals when forging such precision devices as staple guns and missiles."	17	1860	50		Metal has to be forged many times over in order to reach a high grade.	
収	income	"Prostitutes can make a veritable cornucopia of income by using their crotches -- they put the ""come"" in ""income."" (A bit lewd perhaps, but effective in keeping this character distinct from similar keywords like profit (#906) or earnings (#893))."	4	1510	39		Women love men with money. If you have a high income you can get a cornicopia of crotches.	
卑	lowly	"A LOWLY single rice grain, DROPPED in an empty FIELD, can produce a CORNUCOPIA of food."	9	1511	39		Lowly people only have a drop of brains and use nothing but 4-letter words.	
后	empress	"The empress is cruel. Normally she'll violently pull her servants by the ear when they've failed to follow orders. But one time she dragged this one guy around the palace by the mouth. She must have been really angry—ever since that moment, he's never been seen again."	6	1861	50		The F word often comes out of the mouth of the empress.	
碑	tombstone	"There is a grave of a lowly man with a tombstone made of a simple, small stone. If you bow really low you can read the very small inscription engraved on the stone, it says - “Now that you bowed so low to read this, you are as lowly as I once was”."	14	1512	39		A STONE makes a LOWLY TOMBSTONE.	
幻	phantasm	"After the play, The Phantasm of the Opera hangs up his cape on a clothes hanger and returns to his cocoon to sleep."	4	1862	50		"You open your closet and find strange, glowing cocoons sitting on your clothes hangers... definitely a phantasm!"	
陸	land	"My rice-seedlings have become sentient and will go on a mission. I can only apologise for the next 6 frames. In the distance, there is a pinnacle, which the newly-awakened rice-seedlings who are still stuck in the ground can see. Could it be the Promised Land?"	11	1513	39		"When sailors see land in the distance, they first see the pinnacles of the new land, but when they come close enough they'll be able to make out the rice seedlings, and finally the ground!"	
司	director	"The porn director has one big mouth. ""Don't bother putting your clothes on a hanger, just get started.""."	5	1863	50		The director sticks a clothes hanger in each actor's mouth and hangs them from the ceiling until he needs them.	
睦	intimate	I keep an intimate relationship with my rice seedlings -- I never take my eye from the soil.	13	1514	39		land (#1513) Some of them begin to see eye to eye about the possibility of reaching the promised land. A group of awakened rice-seedlings stuck in the ground becomes intimate and starts to form a plan.	
勢	forces	land (#1513) The rice-seedlings still stuck in the soil gather round in a circle. Their combined power forces them out of the ground at last.	13	1515	39		What power makes rice seedlings in the ground grow into well rounded plants? The forces of nature.	
伺	pay respects	Mr. T is the director. You better pay respects to him!	7	1864	50		"If Mr. T gets a role in a film, he doesnt pay respects to the director, the director pays respects to Mr. T."	
熱	heat	land (#1513) The rice-seedlings (newly freed from the ground but with soil still clinging to their roots) gather in a circle around an oven fire. They need to heat up prior to their journey (presumably plants can't walk if they're too cold?).	15	1516	39		"Heat up those RICE SEEDLINGS you pulled from the SOIL in a ROUND pan over a low FLAME. (Note: the hot pan image helps reinforce the idea that this kanji for ""atsui"" refers to something hot to the touch, as opposed to hot weather)."	
詞	parts of speech	"The big mouthed diretor is even picky about the parts of speech you use, shouting, ""More verbs! Less adjectives!"" and such all the time."	12	1865	50		A Grammar is basically a word director that tells us what part of speech each word is.	
菱	diamond	"land (#1513) Deciding to use the diamond-shaped water caltrop flower as cover/protection, the rice-seedlings with their walking legs (now free from soil), can start their journey."	11	1517	39		"Some girls want diamonds, but others will be satisfied with just flowers. However if you think you can win her over with rice seedlings, expect her to get up on her walking legs and walk on out!"	
笠	bamboo hat	"The bamboo vase was beautifully crafted, but the tourist didn't know what it was and wore it as a little bamboo hat."	11	939	26		"The bamboo part is easy. Just remember that this kanji refers to those particular bamboo hats that are worn primarily by Buddhist monks, who always seem to stand outside of train stations, collecting alms."	
箱	box	The best kind of BOX is made from BAMBOO sticks that are INTER-laced to make it air tight. Just picture such a box and you've mastered this kanji.	15	942	26		I think of a box made of inter-locking of bamboo strips.	
核	nucleus	"In the nucleus of the acorn, all the DNA is stored -- the building blocks for a new tree."	10	1520	39		The nucleus of an oak TREE is an ACORN.	
舟	boat	"I see this kanji as a pictograph of a two story boat seen from the front. The glass canopy is the body of the boat. The drop on top is the chimney. The horizontal line is the ceiling/floor between the the 1st/2nd floor. Finally, the two drops in the middle are the lights on the decks."	6	1868	50		"Cinnabar (丹) colored boat, the extra drop signifying that the paint hasn't dried yet. The stick represents the oars."	
刻	engrave	"This famous ninja (I always use ninjas with sabres, distinct from samurai) used to engrave the kanji for his name onto acorns, and throw the acorns to distract his enemies. The legend goes that by the time his victims would pick up the acorn and read the engraved kanji, they were already dead."	8	1521	39		"While it's traditional for lovers to engrave their names on a tree in many countries, in Japan, however, it was traditional for a samurai to signify his undying love for a woman by engraving the kanji of her name on an acorn with his sabre."	
舶	liner	"The most famous LINER is the Titanic, which struck an iceberg and sunk. Just imagine that huge LINER strucking an even huger mass of white ice."	11	1869	50		"A liner is to boat as an emperor (#261) is to a king (#255), or a chief (#967) is to a person (#951): in each case we need only add white to the latter in order to get the former."	
該	above-stated	"I asked my teacher what this strange word meant, and she furiously replied that it was explained in the above-stated paragraph before throwing an acorn at me!"	13	1522	39		The above-stated words are the acorn from which the following statement grows.	
航	navigate	"To navigate a ""boat"" through a ""whirlwind"" takes a skilled navigator."	10	1870	50		"In Legend of Zelda: The Wind Waker, you can navigate your boat by summoning whirlwinds."	
劾	censure	The liberal squirrel blogged that he would give all his ACORNS to congress if it would exercise its POWER to censure Bush and Cheney.	8	1523	39		Acorn Power is the people's way to CENSURE a congressman you don't agree with. Pelt your Senator with acorns today.	
述	mention	Why are the roads leading through the woods so sticky and dirty? Hmm... I think the forest ranger mentioned something about excess resin on the roads...	8	1524	39		No-body mentioned that there was resin on the road. Now I'm stuck!	
般	carrier	"Carrier?! This means ""general"" (as in the general public or generally). OK.. Carriers, i.e. boats with missiles, are not available to the general public."	10	1871	50		"In general, carrier boats have missiles."	
術	art	"Behold the ""Boulev'Art"" : a life-size section of a boulevard cast in a huge block of resin. Some call it ... art."	11	1525	39		The definition of art is getting more and more loose these days. Why even some resin spilled onto the boulevard is now counted as art! Hmmph!	
盤	tray	"What do you call a ""CARRIER"" of DISHes? A TRAY."	15	1872	50		"Imagine a restaurant set in Disney's Fantasia or maybe in Harry Potter's university, where dishes are magically landing and taking off of a carrier tray."	
寒	cold	"A cold lunch: in the house, celery, pre cooked animal legs (i.e. chicken drumsticks) and ice tea."	12	1526	39		"Some strange animal tried to steal a stalk of celery from my house. However, it was freezing and the floor was covered in ice, so the mysterious animal couldn't get any traction. Picture a stalk of celery and a pair of animal legs slipping and sliding clumsily around the ice, and never able to leave the house. Eventually it got so cold that the little animal froze to death."	
搬	conveyor	"When workers neglect workplace safety, their fingers get cut off and carried away by the conveyor belt, which looks like a 'finger carrier' in that case."	13	1873	50		"During WWII, morse code was the primary means of communication from sea. The morse code specialist was the conveyor of messages to and from the crew of the carrier, using his fingers to tap out the secret messages. (This works especially well for 搬送周波数 carrier frequency and 搬送波 carrier wave, being the radio waves/frequencies used in morse code)."	
醸	brew	"On the troical island of JOU, they brew whiskey while wearing grass skirts (top hats and scarves too). (Image: the strangely dresses islanders stirring a pot of brew. Careful fermentation (#1430))."	20	1527	39		"Note : up to frame 1530, the kanji share the same chinese reading (JOU), so don't hesitate to group them into the same environment. Here we have the ""brew""-man, who brews some kind of whiskey using palm tree leaves. Instead of collecting them himself, he just buys the grass skirts from the people on this tropical island where he lives (which you may name the JOU island, after the chinese reading)."	
仏	Buddha	"Mr. T says, ""I ain't afraid o' no foo! I'll give anyone an elbow to the face, I don't care if it's Buddha himself!""."	4	964	27		Buddha is a person who always seems to have his elbows bent.	
壌	lot	My dream is to buy a small lot on a tropical island and spend the rest of my days relaxing in a grass skirt.	16	1529	39		"On the island of JOU, in order to be considered a lot, a ground must be big enough to grow sufficient grass for a grass skirt."	
艦	warship	"The warship towers over the smaller benign boats, overseeing their safe path from port to port."	21	1875	50		A warship is a boat that oversees the seas. Think of it as the patroller of the ocean.	
嬢	lass	"Conversation at a party: A: ""Who is that lass?"" B: ""Which one?"" A: ""The woman wearing the grass skirt."" B: ""Alas, I don't know""."	16	1530	39		"Two Irishmen visit Hawaii and see a woman wearing a grass skirt and nothing else. ""That's some lassie,"" says one to the other. ""But alass Danny Boy, you can't be bringing her home.""."	
艇	rowboat	"In venice, the boat used by the courts to transport criminals is a rowboat."	13	1876	50		"Courts in olden times would often punish convicts by sentencing them to a life of being the rower crew for large rowboat ships (there were no engines or boilers back then)... Yo ho, Yo ho...."	
毒	poison	"If you grow up with a mother that drinks and smokes, you can be sure it's poison in the stuff you get from her breasts."	8	1531	40		"Note that stroke order of grow up primitive isn't obvious from Heisig's diagram: single horizontal stroke is drawn first, then vertical and two horizontals."	
健	healthy	"Mr. T in a public service announcement yells, ""I'm healthy because every day I build a food pyramid, foo!""."	11	974	27		"""Mr.T, sir, how do you stay so healthy?"" I asked. ""Simple, foo,"" he answered, ""you gotta build the body up by bodybuilding!""."	
停	halt	"""Halt fool"" - Mr T acting as a bouncer at the pavillion."	11	977	27		"Mister T makes a halt at the African pavilion at the World's Fair. He eats all the snacks on offer, and chats up the ladies - ""“I pity da foo who does not halt by your pavilion, it's the best !""."	
青	blue	The last time I saw a blue moon was in my youth when I was growing up.	8	1534	40		"""Once in a blue moon"" refers to a rare event. But originally ""blue moon"" refers to a full moon, in other words a fully grown-up moon. Whether once a month is rare or not depends on what we're talking about, but that happens to be the origin of the expression."	
孤	orphan	An orphan will never know the joys on sucking on his mother's melons........	9	1879	50		"Unlike the celebrated story of Momotaro the peach boy, no one knows the story of the melon boy who was left an orphan."	
精	refined	"Before rice is refined, it is actually blue...bet ya didn't know that!! (alternate....Condi Rice was blue when insurgents blew up the iraqi refinery where oil is refined)."	14	1535	40		Very refined people in the upper classes have skin as pale as rice and blue blood.	
儀	ceremony	Mr. T is the master of ceremonies because he is a righteous dude.	15	984	27		"Mr. T was briefly a rapper, that is an M.C., that is a master of CEREMONIES (the origin of the phrase). But he sang only RIGHTEOUS songs, no cursing or anything like that. (all true: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7_rBidCkJxo )."	
催	sponsor	"And now a word from our sponsor. We see Mr. T, doing a sort of George Foreman thing, grilling Mountain Turkeys. ""I pity da foo who don't have a Mr. T grill!""."	13	987	27		"Mister T sponsors a meeting in the mountains (he's an hermit), talking over a megaphone “I pity da foo who does not come to my event !”. The old turkey comes, and Mister T catches it and cooks it for dinner, muahaha."	
晴	clear up	"Sun and blue sky! Yep, the weather's cleared up!"	12	1538	40		When we speak of clearing up we easily think of both the sun and blue skies. But in another since to clear up is the absence of weather. And therefor the reason weather has no place in its writing.	
暇	spare time	"Some jackass-like people have way too much spare time. You can find video's of them all over the internet, if you like such things, you can watch it all day. You see them stapling their mouths shut, or throwing eachother upside down in boxes or kicking each other in the crotch."	13	1882	51		"Tip: The complex right side of this kanji appears twice more in Heisig. He later names it ""hobby"". REF: shrimp (#2689), haze (#2779)."	
清	pure	Pure sea water is always a radiant blue.	11	1539	40		"Bottles of water claim to be pure. They're generally in blue containers, because blue makes you feel like its that much more pure."	
伐	fell	"At a fiesta, Mr. T tries to knock down a large pinata, but in his overly enthusiastic swings to get ""the sucka,"" he actually FELLS the tree the piñata is hanging from, crushing some party goers. “I pity da fools who got crushed by my FELLED tree!”."	6	994	27		Mr T at the fiesta fell over blind drunk.	
保	protect	"Mr. T opens his mouth from the top of the tree saying ""I pitty da foo who don't protect the trees!""."	9	997	27		Tip: Heisig later combines mouth and tree into 呆 dumbfounded (#2181). Story: Your person (Mr. T. or whoever) is dumbfounded when told to protect the bad guys rather than fight them.	
一	one	"One down, 2041 to go. ;)."	1	1	1		"To learn this one kanji, I recommend (#2000) this story : Bambi is in a cave, eating a side-dish of salad when trying to learn the kanjis. As he succeed to learn the kanji for ""one"", you get jealous and decide to shoot him with a slingshot. At this moment you hear the police coming, so you hurriedly burn all the proofs into a fire (so you remove the key-words Bambi, slingshot and fire from recommend). So that when the police arrives, the only remaining clue is a single horizontal bar."	
府	municipality	"A municipality, like any type of government, adheres to having caves for offices (see government office (#591))."	8	1002	27		"Even if a municipality is in a cave, you have to adhere to its policies."	
賃	fare	It's your own responsibility to pay the bus fare with the correct number of shells/money.	13	1004	27		"In Japan they have automatic ticket gates so you cant easily cheat on your train fare. In England however the ticket gates are fairly open. It is a different kind of system. In England you are given the RESPONSIBILITY to put in the right amount of MONEY, but if you are caught cheating, the fines are stiff and you feel like a real CHINCHIN. ""un.CHIN""."	
代	substitute	"""Mister T substitutes an arrow for a toothpick"" -- The keyword meaning is to replace something with something else, to act for another, to represent. It's best to stick to the first meaning, because the last two are very close to ""mediator"" which will come in frame 1761. The idea here is that the arrow is not a toothpick, neither it is changed into one, but it can substitute for one."	5	1005	27		Mr. T shot the substitute teacher with an arrow.	
八	eight	"""Hachi"" (eight) begins with the sound of the katakana ""ha"", and it's approximately the same character."	2	8	1		The valcano hasn't erupted for 8 years.	
口	mouth	Looks like a huge open mouth.	3	11	1		"Momma used to say: ""Keep your trap shut!"" This thing is shaped like a trap door."	
何	what	"What can Mr T do? 'You mean: what can't MR T do, you fool'."	7	1012	27		What can't Mr. T not do?	
荷	baggage	"TSA guard: What's in the baggage?! It's just flowers, I swear!"	10	1013	27		"Your girlfriend arrives at the airport. You give her flowers, but she brushes you off and says ""here, carry my BAGGAGE."" Dumbfounded at her rudeness, you say, ""what?""."	
傍	bystander	"In Japan, the emperor is a bystander - he stands on his crown but can't really affect the direction of the country. (thx shimouma)."	12	1015	27		"Mr. T is in the street, standing up, wearing an golden crown and a compass in his hand... he's asking the bystander if they know how to get to buckingham palace (!)."	
畝	furrow	Using a TOP HAT to make FURROWS in the RICE FIELD takes a LONG TIME!	10	1017	27		A mummy tries to furrow his brow but realizes that he's got no head - just a brain with a top-hat on it. So he furrows his brain. [trigger: furrow your brain].	
囚	captured	"A person pent in is obviously captured. Imagine a man put inside a wooden box, his evil capturers waiting for ransom money."	5	1018	27		Mr. T can't be captured. This kanji is lying.	
唱	chant	Someone chanting with their mouth open for two consecutive days.	11	21	2		Chants from our mouths are meant to reach the sun and the stars. Stars are just suns just further away so they seem smaller.	
腐	rot	The rotting meat adheres to the cave walls.	14	1023	27		Smaller municipalities are well known for filling their budgets with pork (meat). Thats why they are also well known for being rotten.	
座	sit	CONGRATULATIONS YOU'RE HALFWAY THERE!!!! =).	10	1024	27		"Coal mine (cave); tea break time; the assembly line stops and everyone sit or squat on the dirt floor, in a long line, to rest."	
卒	graduate	"Ph.D graduation for assembly line of doctors(needles) with the cap and tassel(top hat). It took them 10 years (Bachelor's, Masters, PhD) to get there.... :-p."	8	1025	27		"When you graduate, you wear a hat and graduate in an assembly line while your parents sit on pins and needles because it will take ten years to pay off those loans."	
匁	monme	"""Dude! What happened to your arm! It's all bound up!"" ""Yeah man, it's a bummer... with my arm like this I can only lift one monme!""."	4	1027	28		"""Dude! What happened to your arm! It's all bound up!"" ""Yeah man, it's a bummer... with my arm like this I can only lift one monme!"" ""You'll never be able to use your dagger now!"" (adapted from ergerg)."	
以	by means of	"A man earns his living by means of the plow. I imagine a sweating man dragging a bronze-age ""ard"" behind him as he plows his field himself, too poor to afford an ox."	5	1028	28		Mr T now makes a living by means of a plow/hoe and the sweat he puts into it.	
胆	gall bladder	The moon has a lot of gall sticking around after sunrise.	9	31	2		All the month long I have to start working at nightbreak. This really activates my gall bladder (=I get angry).	
宮	Shinto shrine	"This Shinto shrine is built with human spines. Have you ever seen the ossuary in Sedlec, near Kutna Hora in Czech Republic ? It is a small church entirely decorated with human bones. Do a web search for ""sedlec ossuary"", it's quite a sight."	10	1033	28		"A friend of mine made up a rhyme for this one: ""house with a spine, Shinto shrine""!"	
営	occupation	The schoolhouse is the backbone of a foundation that will allow you to find a good occupation.	12	1034	28		"During the German occupation, this Nazi officer's occupation was to manage schools that were requisitioned for training the children of the Aryan race to stand proud with an erect spine (mnemonic : ""the occupation's spine schools""). Kanji meanings : to manage, to conduct (business), and also ""barracks; camp; encapment"". This story should help avoid confusion with post (#824) and employ (#1083). The military occupation theme hints to the secondary meaning, e.g. 営倉 ""detention barracks""."	
善	virtuous	"Imagine a priest's teaching: ""To achieve virtue one must first submit himself as a sheep to God's flock, rejecting the horns of Satan and resisting the mouth of Hell."	12	1035	28		"To be virtuous, a good rule to follow is to put your sheepishness (discretion) over your horns (anger) before using your mouth. In other words, ""discretion is the better part of virtue""."	
夜	night	"Actually, the lower-right primitive isn't quite ""walking legs."" It's a little more like ""evening"" with an extra stroke across it (look up the stroke order). So, it helps me to see this kanji for night as: evening plus an extra stroke representing the tuxedo tails to match the top hat which my special person is wearing out on the town..."	8	1037	28		"Here we have Mister T sleepwalking, wearing a top hat as if he was the ambassador of the night, walking, and walking and walking on his tired walking legs, until he drops (back into his bed)."	
液	fluid	A wet dream........water fluid that comes out at night....	11	1038	28		"I imagined some kind of liquid (water) that was discovered on another planet. It solidifes during the day, and becomes fluid only at night, in the absence of light. The question is, could any lifeforms thrive in there ?"	
舌	tongue	"What is in a mouth that permits it to speak a thousand things? Yes, a tongue."	6	41	3		Kissing a thousand mouths eventually gets you some tongue.	
丸	round	Nine plus a drop rounds it off to ten!	3	44	3		"Watch out for plump (#120). Here Heisig could have added a ""t"" and we would have had a much better keyword : rotund. Rotund is more specific than ""round"" which begs for confusion with circle (#1811). A dictionary search on ""fat"" or ""round"" doesn't yield this kanji, but ""rotund"" does! Primitive suggestion: the Laughing Buddha is often depicted as a rotund, smiling bald man in robes with a largely exposed pot belly stomach (symbolizing plenitude)."	
旋	rotation	"A merry-go-round with a big banner on top and below a veritable zoo of bakelite animals on poles in perpertual rotation accompanied by silly music. Giraffes, elephants, zebras, rhinos..."	11	1046	29		"Don't confuse with revolve or axis! Think of rotation as a rotation of animals in the zoo - some are on display (in rotation), some are in cages in the back (out of rotation). The ones currently in rotation (on display) are advertised with a large banner."	
遊	play	The BANNER warns that CHILDREN PLAY on the ROAD.	12	1047	29		"There is always a stupid banner talking about children at play near the road. They mean ""drive slowly"", but it sounds like its slow(stupid) children that are at play."	
旅	trip	"The boat starts to leave on it's trip across the Atlantic. Underneath a huge banner that spans the width of the ship and says ""Bon Voyage"", the people wave their rags signalling a safe journey for all on board the Titanic."	10	1048	29		"After a long long trip, what once was a proud beautiful banner, we had nothing more than a simple rag remaining."	
物	thing	"The cow's ""thing"" is tied in a knot! ouch."	8	1050	29		A cow is not a thing. Its an animal. If you study japanese you know that living beings and things are discerned from each other with the verbs iru and aru.	
易	easy	The sun is not an easy place to get to.	8	1051	29		"Under the sun, it is easy to untie a knot. Under a pitch-dark sky, it is knot so easy."	
貝	shellfish	Eye thought I saw a shellfish legging it down the beach!	7	54	4		"Stare at the shellfish, it looks like an eye with legs."	
見	see	"As a primitive, this is Mike Wazowski from Monsters Inc. (the giant eyeball with legs...) Makes for easy stories later on."	7	57	4		Eyes and legs are all you need to see the world.	
屋	roof	Flag at the climax (highest point) of a castle roof.	9	1058	29		"A couple climaxing on the roof, draped in the American flag. The neighbors are mortified and call the landlady..."	
屈	yield	"When yielding, soldiers raise the white flag before exiting from the trenches."	8	1060	29		"If you live in Japan, you are only too familiar with the helpful little man who assists you in getting out of every parking lot or parking garage, standing at the exit, waving his flag to make traffic yield to you."	
掘	dig	"If you dig with your fingers hard enough, soil eventually yields."	11	1061	29		"When you dig, you'd better hope that whatever you're digging into yields to your fingers. If not, you're bound to lose some nails."	
居	reside	A humongous American flag in Florida marks the place where all the old people reside.	8	1063	29		"It is an old tradition that people plant a flag on places where decide to reside; this tradition still goes on: Antarctica, the moon: flags all over the place! cf. set (#1064)."	
据	set	"The man set his finger firmly on the map and said ""Here is where they reside, I am certain of it""."	11	1064	29		Cf. reside (#1063): you set the flag with your fingers on the place where you reside: an old tradition.	
局	bureau	The Federal Bureau of Investigation has email scanners that flag certain phrases.	7	1066	29		They do nothing at the bureau other than repeating the stupid catchphrase they have on their flag.	
遅	slow	A sheep crossing guard waves a SLOW flag for his fellow sheep crossing the road.	12	1067	29		"Road sign (flag): ""Sheep on highway! Drive slowly.""."	
刷	printing	We printed a japanese flag on his white towel by stabbing him with a saber while he was wearing it.	8	1069	29		"The image that keeps coming to me is of the giant mechanical printing presses. The cloth-based material is coming off the roll like a flag and then, after printing, gets cut into sheets by saber-like cutting tools."	
尺	shaku	"Slang for blowjob and that's priceless for stories...but also the character looks like the letter R which I think of as standing for RULER (12 inches) other meanings include: rule, measure, length."	4	1070	29		"Since this is SLANG for BLOW JOB and since it looks like an ""R"", let's have the primitive be the R in BROW JOB. :)."	
尽	exhaust	"A women is so exhausted by her ""shakuhachi"" that see needs to ice her jaw."	6	1071	29		That's not ice...it's my last drops and I'm exhausted! ;).	
訳	translate	You cannot pretend to translate into words the melody of the shakuhachi!	11	1073	29		"You all know that 'shakuhachi' is a slang word for blowjob, right? In this kanji you got a job as a TRANSLATOR for Japanese porno movies. So you sit there all day translating dirty WORDS and watching girls perform SHAKUHACHI. This is the life!"	
択	choose	"Hand job or ""shakuhachi"", choose."	7	1074	29		"Depending on where you choose to put your fingers, the shakuhachi will produce a different note."	
右	right	The right hand is for putting food in your mouth. (The other hand is for ass-wiping!).	5	78	5		Always keep your right to free speech (mouth) by your side!	
貢	tribute	"""This next song is a TRIBUTE to a little SHELLFISH friend of mine who was tragically crushed by an I-shaped table.""."	10	81	5		Tribute is the craft of raising money.	
涙	tears	I see the story of Hachiko: the faithfull dog who still waited for his master to return long after he had died. Brings a tear to the eye.	10	1082	29		Tears are watery (water + re).	
雇	employ	Our company has no standards. We'll employ any turkey who walks in the door.	12	1083	29		"Comedy. An executive is having an argument with a cocky, but skilled, employee: ""Damn it, you might be good. But that don't account for your behavior. You keep this up and I'll fire your ass."" ""No, you won't."" ""What damn it, I'll fire you your ass so fast you won't...know...""-. ""And what will you do after you fire me, employ the next turkey that walks through that door?"" A turkey then walks through the door and hands the Exec his resume. --""The Exec employs the turkey that walked through the door""."	
啓	disclose	"Behind closed DOORS, the TASKMASTER tortures to get prisoners to open their MOUTHS and DISCLOSE information."	11	1085	29		You signed a non-disclosure agreement with the taskmaster but you opened your mouth as soon as you got out the door!	
則	rule	"When you have both money and the power of the sword, you can make the rules."	9	88	5		"If you've got CRABs on your SABER, then you didn't follow the rules of safe sex!"	
丁	street	"Today, the program ""Sesame Street"" is brought to you by the letter ""T""."	2	91	5		Two streets make a T-intersection.	
視	inspection	"The beaurocracy in Japan is such that even altars need to be inspection approved. A little man with glasses comes once a year to give the altar a ""visual once over"" as he calls it (perhaps checking for unauthorised symbology?)."	11	1093	30		[inspection; regard as; see; look at] Inspection: you 示 show (#1086) and someone else 見 see (#57).	
奈	Nara	"It's beautiful place, but the dark side of Nara is that they sacrifice St. Bernards on evil altars every night after the tourists leave!"	8	1094	30		Nara is just a big show for tourists.	
尉	military officer	Of course it had to be the military officer's idea to glue a national flag to the altar he's stationed at.	11	1095	30		"Perhaps you have heard about Koizumis controversial visits at the Yasukuni war memorial shrine. It is the japanese flag waving above a small stone altar. A military officer keeps watch here night and day, to honor the dead war heroes, as if he is glued to the ground."	
款	goodwill	"Samuari, altar, yawn The samurai is on the altar, preaching about goodwill. The audience just yawns however, they want to see the man fight!"	12	1097	30		"For better remembering the placement of the eleements: The samurai kneels before the altar at his wedding ceremony, when some of the attendants lets out a big yawn. He is a kind man and for the day his goodwill benefits everyone. No beheadings."	
禁	prohibition	"Similar to radical tyro's story. If you live in Japan, your main exposure to this kanji is probably ""no smoking"" signs. So I imagine the government enacting a prohibition of tobacco, and burning whole groves of tobacco plants on an altar (the altar of public health, or self-righteousness, if you will)."	13	1098	30		"Hidden in a grove was a church with a secret altar that was stocked full of prohibited alcohol during the American prohibition period of 1920-1933. A local registered himself as a mininster of this altar so he could stock prohibited alcohol ""for sacremental purposes"" and share it with his kin (きん)."	
母	mama	The two breasts of a momma who breastfeeds.	5	101	6		"This mama had twins, one mouth for each nipple."	
察	guess	I have an informed guess about whose house the dark rituals are performet at.	14	1103	30		It's anyone's guess who's house she will wake up in the morning after the festival (祭-matsuri)　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　サツ　警察　けいさつ(police)…　Pure Group:　擦1104.	
擦	grate	If you mis-guess the cheese you'll grate your fingers on the cheese-grater (happens to me all the time).	17	1104	30		Ouch! Guess how many fingers I just grated in the grater? (Edit: OR: Ouch! Guess what I just grated in the grater? -- my finger!).	
抽	pluck	"[When I see the word pluck, I think eyebrows, not vegetables. So, to avoid confusing with pick (#733):] Each time this singular, long, wiry black hair starts to sprout out of my chin again, I pluck it with my fingers."	8	1106	30		"If you pluck your fingers, new ones will sprout in their place. (try it ;)."	
油	oil	The liquid oil that sprouts from an oil field.	8	1107	30		"In a rather surprising scientific breakthrough, genetically modified Brussel sprouts (which have become extremely absorbative), are thrown in the water to suck up oil spills."	
袖	sleeve	"Imagine some magic cloak, that when worn, has little green sprouts appearing on the sides that grow into sleeves."	10	1108	30		"The bad magician says, ""As you can see, there's nothing up my sleeves!"" Then he trips over his cloak and brussel sprouts fall everywhere."	
届	deliver	"In the US, when the mail is delivered, a flag sprouts up on your mailbox. (We don't have that in Australia.)."	8	1110	30		"A Japanese man ordered some Brussel sprouts from Belgium. They are delivered with a little Belgian flag (as seen sometimes in shops, little flags indicating the provenance and authenticity of the food like cheese and meat)."	
笛	flute	Flute is made of bamboo sprout.	11	1111	30		"You pick up your bamboo flute, and recoil in shock as out comes not the dulcet melody you had hoped to play, but rather a Brussels sprout! You play again, and again a Brussels sprout. A bamboo flute that plays sprouts! Fabulous! Puts that golden egg laying goose in its place."	
肖	resemblance	"Using DNA matching, a very little bit of flesh can be used to show the resemblence between family members."	7	114	7		"Hey baby, it might be a little bit of flesh now, but in a moment it'll bear a strong resemblance to a candlestick.(nudge nudge, wink wink)."	
挿	insert	"A rice farmer's delicate fingers have inserted 1,000 rooted seedlings into his field."	10	1116	30		"Imagine a crazy japanese hentai: multiple fingers and thousand of root-like tentacles are inserting themselves in... well, I think you can fill the rest."	
申	speaketh	"I imagine thomeone who can not pronounth the ""s"" and speaketh like thith becauth they have a cane in their mouth."	5	1117	30		"I had persistent trouble confusing this one with 曰 sayeth (#578). The way I keep it sorted out is that this one is used in ""moshi moshi"" when answering the phone, similar to the way an American would say ""hello, this is X speaking.""."	
神	gods	"The Gods are gathered around debating Zeus' latest purchase for Mount Olympus. A huge and extremely kitsch gilded altar in the shape of giant ""speak no evil"" monkey. Hera decides she will never let him go shopping alone again ."	9	1119	30		"Hinduism has many gods, not just one God. One of the most famous of these gods is Hanuman the monkey. Many altars are dedicated to him."	
捜	search	The monkey searches around with his fingers for his crotch.	10	1120	30		"If you are familiar with the Monkey legends (西遊記 Journey to the West) there is a good image for this character: While searching for the end of the universe, monkey reaches to his crotch and urinates on Buddha's fingers. (Update: new link http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RYXFppaKLL4)."	
果	fruit	If only Eve had used her brains and not taken the forbidden fruit from the tree.	8	1121	30		Eve ate fruit from the tree and knowledge filled her brain.…　　　　　　RTK2:　カ　果汁　かじゅう (fruit juice)…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Semi-Pure Group:　菓1122　課1123　(ﾗ): 裸1124.	
課	chapter	"After I finish each chapter of RTK, I eat a piece of fruit to celebrate all the new words I've learned. (Thanks Misha!)."	15	1123	30		"Words signify the written words in a book. The fruit represents something whole, complete. A chapter in a book often offers a complete idea, setting, or account. It's good to disambiguate the keyword from paragraph (#82). To reinforce the kanji, imagine eating a fruit at the end of each chapter of Tolstoy's ""War and Peace"" to reward yourself. (If you ate a fruit at the end of each paragraph, you'd very quickly run out of fruit)."	
裸	naked	"Here we have Adam and Eve eating of the forbidden fruit and realizing they were naked, and so clothing themselves in a cloak."	13	1124	30		"Hey honey, I'm naked underneath this cloak. I've got some nice melons and a fresh peach waiting for you. Don't you want to taste my forbidden fruits...?"	
州	state	There were 3 little islands in the stream who all decided to set themselves up as independent states.	6	128	8		"シュウ　The original meaning of this character was ""sandbar"", and for me this conjures up images of the Mississippi River, which is very wide with many sandbars and which was used to define the borders in ten American states. Picture Huck Finn and Tom Sawyer floating by state after state as they adventure down the mighty Mississippi, occasionally beaching their raft on sandbars."	
近	near	The end is near. The axe-murderer is waiting for you on the road...	7	1129	31		"An absurd image, but working for me: two points A and B are separated by a long road. To make A and B near, take an ax, cut a big chunk of road, and the work is done."	
折	fold	"It's the latest Japanese game show: Forudo! Contestants are given a sheet of paper and are told to fold it into a complex origami shape. If they're not done in 60 seconds, a huge axe descends from the ceiling and chops their work in half. Contestants know to recoil their hands from the falling axe, but some have been so absorbed in folding, they ignore the buzzer and get their fingers chopped off."	7	1130	31		"Fold some origami into the shape of an axe with your fingers. It's even as sharp, so watch out for paper cuts!"	
逝	departed	"One of the dearest of Japan's dearly departed is Sasaki Sadako, who developed Leukemia after the bombing of Hiroshima, and became famous for folding more than a thousand paper cranes, never giving up hope. To this day, people in Hiroshima still fold origami cranes in her memory. For this character, let us imagine a parade in her honor, the entire road lined with folded cranes."	10	1132	31		The BIG ONE hits Tokyo. You see a news report of the recently departed victims who died when the roads folded (from the earthquake).	
暫	temporarily	Your car has been savagely (see steadily) attacked by an ax. It will be some days before your car is fixed. So you are temporarily without car.	15	1134	31		Today is Car Axe Day. The day where you can temporarily (today only) attack cars using an axe without punishment.	
漸	steadily	"I imagine firemen working steadily to rescue a man from a crashed car. First, they spray it with water; then, they use an axe to break through the window."	14	1135	31		"Water + Car + Axe: The steadily rising water was filling the car, but the firefighters took their axe and broke the window, getting me out."	
沖	open sea	Open sea is a lot of water in the middle of nowhere.	7	138	8		Water in the middle of the ocean is referred to as open sea.	
昨	yesterday	One can use a simple word play to remember this character - the day that I saw before today was yesterday.	9	1140	31		"Yester-DAY, all my troubles seemed SAW far away..."	
詐	lie	"Pinnochio gets frustrated that every time he utters a word of a lie, his nose grows and he has to get the saw out again."	12	1141	31		"Her lies are words that cut not like a knife, no not cleanly, but savagely like a saw."	
雪	snow	"SNOW isn't all that different from RAIN, except it can be removed with a BROOM because it only forms in freezing temperatures."	11	1143	31		Rain just soaks into the soil. Snow has to be swept away with a broom...　RTK2:　セツ　積雪　せきせつ(pilled up snow).	
録	record	A monk won a gold metal for breaking the current record for most swept rice in one minute.	16	1144	31		This character is about a recording for a music box. The tines of the mechanism are like a metal broom and the little pins on the cylinder are like metal grains of rice.	
尋	inquire	"The policed inquired into the erotica scandal. They tried to sweep away the evidence, but some of it stuck. (Note: katakana エロ ero in the middle of this kanji is the Japanese word for erotica.)."	12	1145	31		"As a verb this means, this means ""to ask; to enquire; to search; to look for; to look into; to investigate;"". Imagine the police inquiring in an in-depth investigation. They are interrogating a suspect. But the suspect has a crafty mouth and is very sly. He/she also knows when to keep their mouth shut(glued) at the right moments to avoid self-incrimination. As a final measure, the police torture the suspect by tickling him/her with a broom while they inquire."	
穏	calm	The farmer is calm knowing that his wheat fields are protected from vultures by his strawman with a heart (all the better to do the job properly).	16	1147	31		This whole kanji is a picture of calmness. The wheat has been harvested and even the vultures sit calmly watching the humans sweep and clean-up after the harvest is over. Hearts are peaceful and calm at this time of the year. Even the days are calm without storm.	
侵	encroach	"The parson ENCROACHES on the French maid; driven wild by her little broom, dainty tiara and sinfully short skirt showing her knickers (crotch)!"	9	1148	31		Mr T. hits a condom salesman (broom + crown + crotch) over the head with a broom because the dude ENCROACHed Mr. T's privates area during the sale.	
圧	pressure	The GROUND at the base of a CLIFF must suffer from enormous pressure.	5	152	8		"For physics people: p = F/A (p:pressure, F:Force, A:Area). Where the force is from the immensity of the cliff. The area on the cliff is covered by soil. So the equation becomes p = F/A = cliff/soil which preserves the position of the primitives."	
当	hit	Some mothers use a small broom to hit their children when they misbehave.	6	1153	31		"Here is a weird carnival game where you hold a broom like a javelin and throw it, trying to hit the center of a very small target. The target is so small, in fact, that if someone does manage to hit it, the operator turns in surprise and says, ""Whoa, really?! (本当?!)""."	
争	contend	"This can be seen as a Retarius, a roman gladiator. The Retiarius always fought with a net to bound up his opponents, and with a trident, which was able to pierce enemies after tying them. They were terrific contenders, so they were only paired with gladiators specially equipped to fight them."	6	1154	31		A boxing ring is bound up by the ropes. The contender is cheating and using a rake.	
事	matter	Just one word about this matter from your mouth and you will find this rake across it.	8	1156	31		I had to take one day off from work due to 'personal matters' after stepping on a rake and having the handle snap up and smack me across the mouth. I certainly wasn't going to tell anyone about it.	
糖	sugar	Sugar made from rice has a tangy flavour.	16	1158	31		"The T'ang are the ones who began using sugar in China--of course, the first thing they tried it on was rice."	
康	sane	"A psychiatric hospital is located in a CAVE. To determine, which patients are sane and can be released, they are given a SIEVE and asked to empty a bathtub (the sane ones take out the plug and get the water out with ease)."	11	1159	31		"People on the cave age became more sane after they started using sieves to avoid eating harmful things with their grains. (This kanji is almost exclusively used to write 健康, health)."	
炎	inflammation	To fight fire with fire would just inflame a situation.	8	162	8		An inflammation can often feel like FIRE upon FIRE burning.	
灯	lamp	Imagine old gas lamps which had a flame to light up the street signs.	6	165	8		A lamp is fire you can hang from a nail.	
需	demand	"Supply and demand is a simple concept: when it rains, the demand for combs goes up to deal with wet hair."	14	1165	31		"If it's raining combs, then the demand for them sure does drop."	
儒	Confucian	"No more Confucian jibba-jabba! I demand you tell me why it's raining combs!""."	16	1166	31		"One day, Mr. T started reading the little proverbs he found in fortune cookies, and with this newfound wisdom he became a Confucian scholar. He was suddenly in high demand as people came from all over to ask for his sage advice, immensely satisfied with suggestions such as, ""You will find happiness with a new love""."	
厳	stern	"This represents a stern looking owl, perched up on a cliff. This cliff is quite famous for daring individuals to cliff dive off of, but is any of them daring enough to threaten the owl?"	17	1936	53		"The daring mouse gets a stern look after he climbs onto the owl's cliff...　RTK2:　ゲン　厳禁　　げんきん　(""Strickly Prohibited!"")　　　　　　　　　　　ゴン　華厳経　けごんギョウ(Avatamsaka Sutra)."	
端	edge	"Have you ever seen those shots in movies where the hero is standing at the edge of a sheer mountain face, hair blowing in the wind? It probably wouldn't seem so heroic if you saw him ten minutes earlier, when a crew of stylists was carefully combing his hair so it would fall perfectly."	14	1167	31		"When you stand a comb on its edge, it looks like the mountain (#768) kanji."	
鯉	carp	Japanese carp are massive fish - they are measured in ri!	18	176	9		The fish got carpal tunnel syndrome from the computer(I know it's lame but it's hard to find a good story for this).	
遷	transition	"Since the days of the Old West, traveling has transitioned from trying not to step on big snakes to driving on big roads."	15	1610	41		"The west has gone through quite a transition, gone are the days when dogs and snakes roamed the desert, it's all roads and casinos now."	
曲	bend	"It looks like the mouth of Bender the robot, from Matt Groening's animated series ""Futurama"". Thus, I use the character Bender the robot as a primitive."	6	1172	31		"Also means ""melody"". Think of it as a pictogram of a guitar where you have to bend the strings to make a melody."	
誉	reputation	This owl's reputation skyrocketed after he created a tool in order to speak human words.	13	1939	53		"By word of mouth, owl-luring tool (raise (#1938)) gained a reputation of amazingly effective and reliable device."	
曹	cadet	A space cadet eager to make one bend around the sun. (a dangerous maneuver).	11	1173	31		Bender lasted just one day in the space cadets.	
遭	encounter	Close encounters of the third kind. The space cadet encounters aliens on the road.	14	1174	31		"Bender the cadet (see frame 1172) has an ""encounter of the third kind"" on the road. Reference to Steven Spielberg's 1977 movie ""Close Encounters of the Third Kind"". Also a reference to popular stories of people reportedly chased by UFO's while driving on the road."	
安	relax	"It's funny, Hesig gives no Kanji in his book that means cheap/inexpensive... well... if you were wondering what Kanji would carry that meaning, look no further. Sometimes I wonder if Hesig just thinks our little brains would be too easily confused by multiple meanings. Regardless, think of that woman relaxing. Cheapest place to do that is in one's own home rather than at some fancy resort, eh? 家で休暇を取るは安いですね。."	6	190	9		"You can only relax, when you have woman under roof to do all chores."	
料	fee	"When buying rice, the fee is calculated by the cup. Naturally we don't just use any cup; it has to be a proper measuring cup."	10	1178	31		Samurai(s) once received their fee in the form of rice that had been carefully weighed in a measuring cup beforehand.	
科	department	The national DEPARTMENT of WHEATS and MEASURES. Get it? This one was hard until I came up with this.	9	1179	31		Agriculture/astronomy departments...　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　カ　科学　かがく (science).	
森	forest	"The higher you go up a mountain the less trees there are, that's so u dont mess up with their possition like i do."	12	197	10		Another tree planted within a grove turns it into a FOREST.	
閲	review	A little devil at the gates of hell reviews your record to see if you're evil enough to get in.	15	1618	42		"As I was reviewing for my exam at a quiet saloon, the devil popped out of nowhere and offered to make sure I pass. But I told him no way, since that's cheating. Besides, I'm just reviewing things I already know. I won't fail. But he kept insisting, so I kicked him and sent him crashing through the entrance gates."	
備	equip	Mr. T wants to climb up and pick the flowers at the top of the cliff. He equips himself with screwdrivers to use as climbing spikes to reach the top of the cliff. Imagine a large AMMO belt full of philips screwdrivers instead of bullets.	12	1183	31		"An RPG where you're using Mr T as a character. Before you enter a battle, you equip the flower cliff screwdriver. This is a small screwdriver obtained at the bottom of a cliff that, when used in battle, shoots out pink flowers. When they touch the ground in front of the enemy, they create a massive cliff, and the ground under the enemy falls away into the sea. Picture being at the item select menu and EQUIPping this item just before facing a tough boss."	
蔦	vine	In the jungle there is a flowery vine called hedera rhombea that attracts humming birds by the dozens. They scoot around the flowers sucking up nectar off the vine.	14	1945	53		"Note : if you'll remember we already have a primitive for ""ivy"", but it was completely made up from the ""square jewel"" kanji. The kanji here refers to ivy, or vine, and is used in a particular compound for ""Hedera rhombea"", which is a type of ivy native to Japan. This vine here produces a lot of flowers, and attracts many small birds, which is sure to cheer up even the most depressed Japanese gardener."	
錯	confused	"A long time ago, people of the world got confused because there were so many kinds of Metal coins. today we only have the euro."	16	1185	32		"Once upon a time, it was thought that the ancient ""art"" of alchemy could transform anything into gold. At that time, people were obviously confused about the difference between reality and myth. (Arguably people are still as confused as ever, just about different things now.)."	
開	open	"Sure you can squeeze through these gates by kicking them or pushing them with your body, but if you want to get them wide open, you need to do that with both your hands."	12	1622	42		"To open the gate, use your both hands."	
案	plan	I plan to RELAX on top of that TREE.	10	214	10		"If you bring a woman to your house, generally its not a good plan to stick your wood up her bottom, she may scream in pain あん!"	
閣	tower	"To keep this distinct from other kanji such as ""watchtower"" and ""pagoda"", I use the mnemonic ""towering tower"". -- In some old 8-bit kung-fu videogame, with a plot similar as Bruce Lee's last, unfinished movie, the hero must break through a gate at each level of the towering tower, fighting with opponents using various styles of kung-fu until he meets the finale at the topmost level of the ""towering tower""."	14	1624	42		Remember the two towers from lord of the rings... each has it's own - very difficult to master - entrance gate.	
庶	commoner	"Commoners have to huddle in caverns around a campfire, while higher class people get heating and central air conditioning in a hotel."	11	1191	32		"If you are so poor that you are a commoner, you will have to live twenty commoners to a cavern, with only one fire for everyone to share."	
媛	beautiful woman	"As I saw the most beautiful woman on Earth, a flock of migrating ducks passed by and let their poop fly. That just ruined the moment..."	12	1950	53		"You want to know about a beautiful woman? There's a woman that's so beautiful, the birds migrate to her instead of the sun!"	
席	seat	Remember those poor commoners huddled in groups of 20 in a cave? The only thing they had for a seat was some old toweling (while their lords could recline on luxurious couches).	10	1193	32		"You're tired from walking the tour at this cavern and there's no benches to sit down on, so you take a towel and sling it up into a hammock-like seat using the stalagmites. (Big no-no)."	
潤	wet	"Forgetting about the moat, the king stepped out of his gate and landed in the water. Needless to say he got wet."	15	1627	42		"(I had the same idea as Dingomick) I imagine some prankster who put a bucket full of water on top of the huge gates, so that it would fall on the king as he came through them. See the king now, between the gates, all wet, dripping drops of water."	
奔	bustle	"Hustle and bustle = a big St. Bernard dog frisking about in a haystack, knocking it down and spreading the hay about, after the field hands just stacked it up."	8	1196	32		"A bustle is also the name for the big wire-framed skirts that women used to wear. Here's a St. Bernard dog jammed ass-first into the top of a haystack, looking like some kind of proper Victorian-era lady as he struggles to get out."	
噴	erupt	History of Pompei: An unexpect eruption and from the mouths of the volcano come lava that threatens the farmers collecting haystacks in the fields and the fisherman catching shells on the coast.	15	1197	32		"A bit nasty (but makes the whole thing much easier to remember) is to take the right side and call it a bearded clam. For erupt, you can make your own story about the mouth/opening on the left."	
属	belong	"These bugs BELONG TO an extremist group promoting insect independence. They are parading the FLAG of their group, the Nationalist GNATS, and wearing explosives BELTS for their planned terrorist war."	12	1953	53		"[WARNING: violent story] Two teams of insects are playing “capture the flag” (ala Unreal Tournament). All of them wear ammunition belts. Here you try to take the flag of the opponent team, when you are faced by an insect: “You’ll get our flag over my dead body!”. You reply: “All your base are BELONG to us!”, shoot him on the head, take the flag and run away. See the drop of blood flowing from his head?"	
焼	bake	"Ah, there's no better way to bake a pizza than an oven fueled by a burning strawman. And if you listen carefully, there are stifled strawman screams coming from the kitchen. Think of this image: http://users.mtrx.net/funnypics/content/-rdm1-ABCD1234-rdm1-/2005/2005-08-23-0002/Doughboy.jpg."	12	1200	32		Too lofty (#2095)尭 a career choice for the strawman becoming a baker. He was fired soon after starting his first shift. Literally!...　　　RTK2:　ショウ　全焼　ぜんしょう(entirely destroyed by fire).	
半	half	"Imagine karate chopping the number three in half with a WALKING STICK and pausing the picture just as the first ""board"" breaks."	5	1202	32		"I think of this as a pictograph, there are three boards to cut, the first one is already in half and there are still two more to go."	
伴	consort	"The person who is your consort is most commonly ""your other half""."	7	1203	32		Mr. T wants to splits himself in half so he can be his own CONSORT.	
遇	interview	"I was finally able to score an interview with the wisest being around: Jiminy Cricket. However, his schedule is really packed, so they had to squeeze me in while his tour bus rode between gigs. In fact, it was really short---after a few miles I was kicked out of the bus and stranded in the middle of the interstate. But man, it was worth it!"	12	1956	53		On the road to my interview I accidentally bump into Jiminy Cricket who gives me some good advice.	
判	judgment	"In the bible, King Solomon's JUDGMENT was admired not by saying to cut the baby in HALF with the SWORD, but that it revealed who the true mother was."	7	1205	32		It takes good judgement to cut things in exactly half with a saber.	
券	ticket	"Entering the movie, the dude asks for your ticket, so he can tear it in half. He looks at you funny when you hand him a ticket already torn in half. He quietly tears the stub into quarters after you show him your dagger with a smile."	8	1206	32		"In Japan, the JR railway ju-hachi-kippu seasonal discount ticket can be cut into quarters with a dagger and shared with your friends. (its actually sort-of true)."	
洗	wash	"In Japan, you always wash with water from the shower before you enter the bathtub."	9	249	11		You wash things with WATER to get them back to the clean state they were in BEFORE.	
輩	comrade	"Some man jailed in Russia, is freed by his comrade (from the Communist party perhaps), who crashes into the jail cell with a vehicle."	15	1637	42		(+fuaburisu) But it's the wrong jail cell! Your comrade is one floor above.	
藤	wisteria	"According to legend, the great Ogaki wisteria tree grew and flowered from magical rice grains that were planted under the quarter moon."	18	1210	32		"The wisteria is a type of hanging vine covered with flowers. By the light of the quarter moon, the flowers look like clusters of rice grains."	
塑	model	"A legend says that if you model a mountain goat (with tail and everything) from dirt and leave to the light of the moon on the first day of the month (#2846), the dirt will became flesh. (blackstockc)."	13	1960	53		"If you model a mountain goat from ""soil"" and leave it under the full ""moon,"" it will come to life."	
片	one-sided	Fuaburisu's pictograph of a man kneeling and presenting the ring to his future wife is a one-sided version of the story. Others say he was giving her the finger.	4	1212	32		"Taking the keyword in the sense of only one part of a whole, I see this as a pictograph of a man kneeling and presenting the ring to his future wife (I couldn't see any trees or branches in there)."	
版	printing block	"Before the advent of printers in Japan, typewriters couldn't be built as they were in the west due to how many kanji there are. Lots of small printing blocks had to be used instead. One side of the printing block would have a mirrored (anti) image of the kanji. This is true."	8	1213	32		"Nazi propaganda. Picture the printing blocks producing very one-sided (Aryan), anti-Jewish propaganda spreading posters to hang around town."	
鋼	steel	Mount Fuji is completely made up of a metal known as steel.	16	1962	53		Ancient shamans predicted a time when there would be Mounts made of metal. The steel skyscrapers of today…　　　　　　　　RTK2: 　コウ　鋼鉄　こうてつ(steel)…　Semi-Pure Group:　綱1963　(ｺﾞｳ): 剛1964.	
之	of	"Of all the kanji, this is the only one 之orro can write."	3	1214	32		The Z of Zorro (and yes he has a hat).	
快	cheerful	A large crowd in a cheerful state of mind applaude each criminal as they become victims of the guillotine.	7	1642	42		A cheerful crowd of insulted aliens applaude as Data's head is chopped off by guillotine.	
否	negate	"To distinguish between 否 negate, and 不 negative (#1217): Note that negate contains 口, which is a kind of gate."	7	1218	32		Negative mouths negate everything.	
缶	tin can	"Horses kept in the mountains have a unique savory taste. At least so the text on this tin can would have us believe, which contains 100% authentic mountain horse."	6	1965	53		"The starving horse, stranded on the mountain, is forced to eat a tasty tin can."	
矢	dart	Zeus ran out of lightning bolts and has to drop darts from the heavens.	5	1220	33		Do not mistake with LOSE 失.	
矯	rectify	"Angels have now been given a powerful tool to rectify human behavior instantly, without delay - they have been allowed to drop darts on those who misbehave... spare the dart and spoil the man..."	17	1221	33		"The darts of the angel Cupid are supposed to bring people joy, but usually just make things a lot worse. Here we see another angel flying around shooting people with the anti-darts (antidote), to rectify the situation."	
迅	swift	The car went too swiftly through the crossing and was hooked by the cops.	6	280	13		"In the Heisig version of Frogger, you can image ten giant fish hooks sweeping across the road, with our hapless hero 'froggy' forced to make a swift crossing or end up as fish bait."	
矛	halberd	マオ Zedong always carried a halberd.	5	1225	33		"Make the halberd a heroic warrior (perhaps of scandinavian origin) who weilds this polearm - the most effective, brutal and vicious one - with great skill. He can use it to hook, pierce and chop (the three strokes)."	
就	concerning	In the capital they have been having hearings concerning bioethics and bioengineering they call as their first witness a chihuahua with one human leg.	12	1969	53		"Ahem...CONCERNING your recent science fair project, it was a CAPITAL idea, but the CHIHUAHUA with a HUMAN LEG is freaking out the other contestants!"	
務	task	It is with the halberd he holds that the taskmaster exerts his power over those actually performing the task.	11	1227	33		"So many video games have a ""boss"" stage you must pass in order to advance to the next level. Here, your task is to use your halberd to beat the taskmaster with the huge, bulging muscles."	
汗	sweat	"The way sweat is supposed to work: it gets your skin wet, and then as it evaporates/dries, it cools you off."	6	1651	43		"When you sweat your clothes become soaked with water, prompting you to hang them to dry on a clothesline."	
客	guest	Each person under my roof is treated as a guest.	9	294	13		In my house I welcome each guest.	
引	pull	"Put a walking stick in the bow and pull it back, ready to fire at the geezer."	4	1232	33		This is actually a bow and an arrow. (Real origin of this kanji). Pull and release to fire!	
逸	elude	"Tip : as a primitive rabbit becomes Bugs Bunny of Looney Tunes fame. Here Bugs Bunny eludes Elmer Fudd the hunter, once again."	11	1973	53		Bugs Bunny eludes Elmer Fudd by pretending to be roadkill.	
弘	vast	"If you pull the bow back with your elbow, you can shoot a vast distance."	5	1234	33		"The valley was so vast that if you yelled elbow! you could hear it echo bow, bow, bow."	
宇	eaves	Under the eaves of the house the poor family has potate plants.	6	1656	43		"Very good image Erik. To help those who struggleded with this, the eaves of a house is usually the bit where you hang the roof gutter along, usually made of zinc or plastic and shaped as a half-pipe. It catches rain water, so it flows to a drain pipe instead of down onto people and windows. And in this family the potato plants grow along the eaves so the water pours down on them. They are poor. so no gutter."	
享	receive	"In basketball however, tall children receive all the attention."	8	308	14		Tall children receive all the attention. They also make great receivers in football... this kanji also means 'catch' (therefore a football receiver is a great image).	
費	expense	"An expense is an expense, whether you put it in dollars or in local money."	12	1238	33		A dollar sign next to an amount of money denotes an expense.	
第	No.	"The No. 1 currency in the world is the dollar. But, the Asian nations are fast catching up and may in reality have already surpassed it. So, let the bamboo represent the No. 2 currencies (the yen, etc.). The reverse order (bamboo on top and the dollar on the bottom) is really a look at the future."	11	1239	33		"Bamboo bling is the newest Asian Rapper, No. 1 on the charts right now."	
像	statue	The statue of liberty is being replaced by a statue of Mr. T riding an elephant.	14	1977	53		"In India, you see a lot of statues of the Hindu god Ganesha. Easy to recognize: he's the person with the elephant head."	
巧	adroit	"Adroit: dextrous, deft, skillful. Snare is a little generic so I'll use BEAR TRAP, with huge teeth cartoon style that snares you around the ankle. In the crafting of a bear trap, one must be particularly adroit. Otherwise they will become the victim of their down device."	5	1241	33		To be adroit one must have mastered the crafting of snares.	
途	route	"On this route, all trucks have to check in at the scales before they can get on the road."	10	1661	43		"There are too many roads, so you need to plan a route."	
荘	villa	A villa is fancier (decorated with flowers) and more robust than the average.	9	322	14		The teenage mutant samurai turtles live in a villa with flowers on the roof so that the neighbours don't get suspicious.	
汚	dirty	"A hunter Washes, with WATER, his TWO SNAREs, because they are dirty."	6	1245	33		"Washing your dirty snare in water, the extra line represents the water level as you submerge the snare."	
与	bestow	"David went to battle with a slingshot and it only took him one shot to slay Goliath. Partly because of this, the prophet Nathan was later instructed to bestow upon David the throne of all Israel."	3	1246	33		"In The Legend of Zelda Ocarina of Time, one of the first weapons bestowed on Link was the slingshot."	
騎	equestrian	"If the equestrian team used trojan horses, it would be really strange."	18	1981	54		Equestrian events are where you get horses to do strange things.	
身	somebody	"Somebody was just looking for you. He had a longnose that reaches down below his mouth, and a long jaw that sticks out past his nose, and a scar across his face. (greenapple,16-3-2006) The way to remember that this is somebody rather than someone (#1256) is that the story is full of body descriptions."	7	1248	34		"Somebody was just looking for you. He had a long nose that reaches down below his mouth, and a long jaw that sticks out past his nose, and a scar across his face."	
瀬	rapids	You need complete trust in your water guide to attempt Class 5 rapids.	19	1666	43		"You can never trust the water in the rapids, it will do everything it can to pull you under. Imagine a line of natives with bundles upon their heads all fighting the rapids to cross the river."	
老	old man	"An old man, wondering what it's like in a grave, sits in a freshly dug plot. When a gravekeeper mistakes him for dead and begins burying him with soil, the old man saves himself by flailing his walking stick in the air."	6	1251	34		"Old man sits in the dirt, having a stroke."	
考	consider	"Before shooting an old man with a slingshot, one shold carefully consider the possible consequences."	6	1252	34		"Even though he had the old man Mr. Wilson within the sights of his slingshot, Dennis the Menace considered what he was doing and stopped."	
孝	filial piety	This child has taken filial piety to the next level. He is actually carrying the old man on his shoulders.	7	1253	34		+dilandau23: This child has taken filial piety to the next level. He is actually carrying the old man on his shoulders. There is a picture of a statue depicting this here http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filial_piety.	
騒	boisterous	"The hidden Greeks inside the Trojan Horse are getting boisterous as one of them is bitten in the crotch by a nasty insect. If they don't shut up, the Trojans will hear them..."	18	1985	54		"Or more precisely: the team of horses are getting boisterous because one of them got bitten in the crotch by a horse fly. The kanji also means to roar, make up noise, to kick up a fuss and to make merry. Perhaps it is exactly the etymology behind this kanji."	
拷	torture	"In Torture 101 class they teach you to Consider the Fingers as the first part to inflict pain to. Then you can move on to other parts (like feet, groin, head, etc. etc. ; ) )."	9	1255	34		"""Aaaargh, stop!"" cries the victim of torture, his fingers being squeezed by the thumb screws. ""I'll consider it,"" the torturer says coolly, ""if you tell me the names of all the agents in your organization.""."	
剣	saber	"If it helps, make the awl primitive ice pick instead. They're basically the same thing. This kanji is an easy David vs. Goliath story of the icepick vs. the saber..."	10	1671	43		"Every self-respecting ninja knows the story of ""The Awl and the Sabre"". According to the legend, a woman once defended herself by using an awl against a sabre! She used to work all day with that awl. However, the bandit using the sabre had no skill. And thus the awl beat the sabre. And from there the saying goes : ""The sabre is powerless against the awl, if one can't use the sabre.""."	
著	renowned	"Here I am, putting a wreath of flowers on my love doll's head and pretending she is someone of great renowned."	11	1258	34		This someone is so renowned they are covered with flowers every time they perform on stage.	
署	signature	"Before giving your SIGNATURE to accept the LOVEDOLL, you should EYE over the LOVEDOLL for any damages, then give your SIGNATURE."	13	1259	34		The ninja's signature move was to paralyse people just by looking in their eyes.	
暑	sultry	"Ahh, a fine sultry day with my love doll under the hot sun. I think she's getting a tan!"	12	1260	34		"[from decamer0n] This is the kanji for atsui (暑い) as in hot. If you've ever been in Japan in the summer no doubt you have heard hoards of people bellowing ""Atsui! Atsui!"" Here you are laying with your love doll under the hot sun. Luckily the manufacturers were smart and when the doll got to hot it would bellow ""Atsui! It's so sultry!""."	
騰	inflation	"Every quarter moon, the cost of a trojan horse rises one quarter by inflation."	20	1989	54		"Flesh+quarter=McDonald's quarter pounder. Due to inflation, McDonald's has had to start making quarter pounders out of horse meat."	
猪	boar	"My love doll is made of special pheremone impregnated vinyl. Unfortunately, a pack of wild dogs mistook her for a wild boar and tore her to pieces. Oh dear!"	11	1262	34		(Image: a pack of wild dogs chasing Pinocchio who's trying to escape by riding on the back of a boar. See him bouncing around as they race along?).	
動	move	"Even though the furniture is heavy, it'll be easy to move with all the muscles that he has."	11	1676	43		"His MUSCLES are so HEAVY, he barely can move...thats ironic."	
峡	gorge	"A gorge is where God has cut into a mountain with a pair of scissors. (synewave,6-10-2006) http://www.travelblog.org/Photos/197361.html."	9	1265	34		"A kid cuts a gorge into a paper mountain, with a pair of scissors."	
虜	captive	Captive men are thrown to the tigers. I think you can imagine something else is done to captive women...	13	1991	54		"Tip: To avoid confusing keyword captive with captured (#1018) note that captive contains ""ti"" for tiger."	
狭	cramped	"In a CRAMPED space, a brave man holds off PACK OF WILD DOGS with only a pair of SCISSORS."	9	1266	34		"A pack of wild dogs, waiting in a very cramped waiting room, to get their hair cut by Edward Scissors Hands, who is very popular."	
挟	sandwiched	"挟まる 【はさまる】 (v5r,vi) to get between; to be caught in; (P) Story: You know how in tokyo there are those really packed trains where train staff in gloves shove people in? Well imagine being sandwiched in so tight, that when the doors close, only your FINGERS are sticking out. The train staff have no choice... they must cut them off with SCISSORS =( snip snip.."	9	1267	34		Fingers sandwiched between a pair of scissors. Don't move or else!	
渉	ford	The new Ford Jesus. It can do everything except WALK on WATER.	11	372	17		"A ford is a place where one can walk through the water, a place only a few footsteps deep."	
企	undertake	Mary Poppins floated down with her umbrella to undertake the job of stopping the children's misbehaving.	6	375	17		The Undertaker is an evil WWE wrestler - he beat his opponent with an umbrella until he stopped moving.	
棺	coffin	"The maestro at home was sick of being a bureaucrat, so he got some wood and built himself a coffin and got in."	12	1272	34		An excellent use of wood is to make coffins for bureaucrats.	
管	pipe	Japanese bureaucrats send all their messages through an inter-office bamboo pipe system.	14	1273	34		"""The Japanese internet is a series of bamboo pipes"" said one ignorant bureaucrat trying to draft Internet legislation."	
慮	prudence	"Real meaning: ""to ponder"". You have to think with prudence (ponder carefully) about approaching a tiger, as is evident from 虎."	15	1996	54		"You have to think with prudence about approaching a tiger. If not, it will eat your brains and heart. Thanks raulir."	
症	symptoms	"Once you have all the symptoms right, you have correctly identified the sickness."	10	1685	44		A sickness can only be correctly diagnosed if the symptoms are identified correctly.	
題	topic	"The ""TOPIC"" of the day's newspaper must be placed JUST SO at the top of the PAGE to attract attention."	18	389	17		"You spend ALL DAY, mending your socks JUST SO. Then you have a look at the HEADING of the newspaper. The topic---FREE SOCKS TO BE GIVEN AWAY!!!!"	
足	leg	Captain Ahab lost his leg to the great white whale's mouth and had to mend it with a peg leg.	7	1279	34		"I'll use my mouth to mend your leg, I'll kiss it all better :)."	
促	stimulate	"Mr T, ever the optimist, is trying to stimulate Capt Ahab's wooden leg by rubbing it down. Capt Ahab normally wouldn't let anyone do that, but he appreciates Mr T's stimulating conversation."	9	1280	34		You stimulate a person by giving him a kick.	
薦	recommend	"Picture an ad in which Uncle Jimbo (of ""South Park"" fame) recommends the latest craze in deer hunting : a high tech slingshot! The ad begins with Bambi prancing around, smelling the flowers. Then, all of a sudden, Bambi is brutally murdered with the slingshot, put on the cooking fire, and the camera pans to Uncle Jimbo happily munching on crispy cooked Bambi! Note: the slingshot is strokes 11-12."	16	2000	54		"It is recommended that deers stick to eating flowers. If they try to eat birds, they may end up choking on them, like this one here. Note that the head (白) is gone and the visible part of the body which is normally written with a stroke of the head must by necessity be drawn with a stroke of the tail."	
慶	jubilation	"In this kanji, ""deer"" replaces the ""head"" primitive from the ""melancholy"" kanji. Poor Ned is feeling melancholy so Uncle Jimbo (of South Park animated series) suggests a good deer huntin' trip to fix that and turn that melancholy into jubilation."	15	2001	54		"Bambi was melancholy at the death of his mother, but is now in jubilation as he's made friends with thumper."	
露	dew	After the rain the path was covered with dew.	21	1283	34		Dew forms on the path least weathered.	
猿	monkey	The MONKEY likes to play hide and seek with the PACK of WILD DOGS by hiding in the LIDDED CROCK. But he is easy to see because the SCARF he always wears is at the base of the LIDDED CROCK.	13	403	18		"To catch a monkey, chase him with wild dogs into a lidded crock, then tie it with a scarf."	
践	tread	"The pirate with the wooden leg chased after the parade float and was run over by the next one, leaving tread marks all over him and his leg."	13	1286	34		"Pirates must tread carefully when walking on parade floats, so as not to break through the weak plaster with their wooden legs."	
踏	step	You have to watch your step when moving your leg on a watery day.	15	1287	34		"So, we've walked on the moon, but it's going to take a pirate with a wooden leg, with a huge supply of cooling water to land on the sun and take that ""one small step for a man""."	
骨	skeleton	Your body meat is attached to the bone joints of your skeleton.	10	1288	34		The top box 口 is the skull and the brain 田 has shriveled to the size of marble (but following kanji convention it is depicted as a square) and rolled into the bottom right hand corner. With all the hair and flesh gone the crown has slipped down to the shoulders like a necklace. 月 represents the rest of the body of the skeleton. [Idea for position of crown thanks to n1williams].	
匹	equal	This kanji is used commonly as a counter for small animals. This is a pictograph of a SMALL ANIMAL'S view from inside a CARDBOARD BOX looking out at his masters HUMAN LEGS. He's probably hiding so the master does not COUNT him with the other animals which will probably be eaten (thus he avoids everyones EQUAL fate on the farm: the kitchen table).	4	1695	44		Imagine a magician doing that trick where he puts his assistant in a box and proceeds to saw her in half. Don’t the human legs sticking horizontally out of the box remind you of an equal sign?	
禍	calamity	"Continued from auspicious (#1088). Once a year, the people pray for a sign from the gods. But if the gods are feeling particularly mischievous, they'll send down a jawbone to the altar. The people see this as a sign of calamity to come. The gods think of it as an amusing prank."	13	1291	34		Calamity Jane went to the altar to confess her sins and the priest's jawbone fell to the floor...　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　か　禍福　かふく (fortune and misfortune)...　Pure Group: 渦1292　過1293.	
渦	whirlpool	"Grampa's flushing the toilet, when his denture (Jawbone) pops out and gets sucked down the whirlpool!"	12	1292	34		A whirlpool is water opening its jaws to swallow anything whole.	
演	performance	That was some great performance! He caused the water to shoot up into the air and form the sign of the tiger in airborne droplets. You sure missed a great performance!	14	2007	55		"I remember seeing advertisements growing up with the sign of the tiger saying to ""Put a tiger in your tank"", meaning that it would increase the performance of the drops of gasoline you put in."	
辰	sign of the dragon	Bruce Lee is such a badass he climbed a sheer vertical cliff using only 2 hairpins.	7	2008	55		"The kid said ""I don't believe you! Dragons don't exist!"" so we made a little surprise for him: we pinned a huge dragon (it was just a sign really) on a nearby cliff. ""Whoaaa! Dragon!"" the kid said. ""But why won't it move?"" ""I tell you why, cause it's pinned there with two hairpins"" I thought to myself."	
阿	Africa	Can you see Africa from The Pinnacle? I can! I can!	8	1295	35		"A kinda pictogram: 'BoT', the first 3 letters in 'Botswana' an African country."	
抑	repress	A true stamp collecting nerd won't be able to repress the urge to get his fingers on the latest box of collector stamps!	7	1700	44		They would repress dissents by cutting off their fingers and mailing them to relatives in small boxes (of course including stamps for proper postage).	
泣	cry	"Guys have two ways of watering when they are standing, the less common one is crying."	8	432	18		She stood up to leave the room when her eyes started to water...	
陪	auxiliary	"In case of emergency, The Pinnacle has auxiliary guard dogs, but they keep them muzzeled until they're needed."	11	1299	35		When you climb the pinnacle you'll need to take a muzzle of auxiliary oxygen.	
振	shake	"Bruce Lee shakes the confidence of his opponents by simply waving his fingers in front of them, they know that each of them is a deadly weapon in their own right. Hwwaaaa..."	10	2011	55		Your fingers will be crushed if you shake hands with Bruce Lee.	
娠	with child	Any woman spending a night with the virile Bruce Lee is bound to end up with child.	10	2012	55		BRUCE LEE'S WOMAN was WITH CHILD and it really upset her stomach because little Brandon Lee was kicking ass from the inside.	
防	ward off	A giant compass is The Pinnacle's self-defense system. It points in the direction of any invaders so the city is prepared well ahead to ward off the intruders.	7	1302	35		"To ward off enemies, the ancient Greece kept watch from the Acropolis, where they had a clear view in all directions."	
敵	enemy	The taskmaster became my enemy for life when he smashed the antique vase holding my wife's ashes.	15	443	18		Indiana Jones is an enemy of taskmasters in search of antique artifacts. RTK2: 　テキ　敵地　てきち(enemy territory)...　　　　　　　　　　　Pure Group:　嫡440　適441　滴442 　摘657.	
陣	camp	"Paparazzi make camp outside of The Pinnacle in their cars, waiting for the celebs to come out."	10	1305	35		"Note: This kanji is most often used in a military context. Story: Here we see an encampment of military vehicles laying siege to The Pinnacle. With other countries being envious of the perfect life they lead there that makes sense. Fortunately, the pinnacle knows how to ward off (#1302) enemies."	
隊	regiment	Every regiment of The Pinnacle's army is lead by a Miss Piggy with a viking helmet on.	12	1306	35		"Every regiment of The Pinnacle's army has an animal name. This regiment is called ""Horned Pig Regiment"". They're wearing Wiking helms and are usually cowered in mud."	
濃	concentrated	"The agriculture of Florida is concentrated on making concentrated orange juice. Just add water! Imagine a can of FCOJ, dumping it into a pitcher and adding water."	16	2015	55		Concentrated water is going to revolutionize the agriculture! Just add water... oh wait...	
降	descend	"""Sunglasses-missing-one-lens"" is obviously the monocle. The proper, high-class way to descend The Pinnacle is wearing a monocle with your walking legs splayed to a full gentlemanly stride."	10	1308	35		"After a cool, hip businessman angered the executives at The Pinnacle, they beat him up, popping out a lens from his sunglasses, and tossed out the window, head first, walking legs second. One executive later commented, ""It was like he was descending into Hell from Heaven!""."	
毎	every	Freud believed every man wants to lie down with his mother.	6	458	18		Who does every person want to lie down with? Yo' MAMA!	
形	shape	"Everyone in the kindergarten came up with fun and interesting shapes made out of Play-Doh, except for the kid with the amputated arm. Seems like you really need both hands."	7	1711	45		"With your two hands, outline the shape of a curvaceous woman. Is that a universally understood gesture? [Careful: mould (#680) which has two hands and soil/clay]."	
隠	conceal	The wheat farmer's heart is calm (#1147) about the eagle not stealing his crops because of the broom scarecrow. But he still conceals all his wheat at The Pinnacle in case anyone else trys to steal it.	14	1313	35		"Move the broom with a vulture perched on top, and you'll find the concealed entrance to the heart of The Pinnacle."	
鬼	ghost	"A ghost, or oni, wandering slowly on its human legs, searching for brains to eat. What looks like an elbow here is actually a pictoral representation of the forked tail protruding out of its rear."	10	2019	55		Ghosts aren't very intelligent - they have but a drop of brains - so can't tell the difference between an elbow and a pair of human legs.	
彩	coloring	In Sydney we occasionally get exotic birds. You first notice a colouring in a tree. You look more carefully and you make out the shape of a bird (here represented by its claws).	11	1714	45		Mystique the shape-shifter changes the coloring of her skin to camouflage tones and perches herself in a tree like a vulture waiting for her pray.	
茨	briar	"To prevent animals from eating the beautiful flowers in your garden, the best thing to do is to plant briar bushes immediately next to them."	9	472	18		"The briar patch may look unremarkable now before it blooms, but there will be flowers next, and it will be beautiful."	
突	stab	When you stab something you often leave a big hole.	8	1319	35		"The police have recruited a special breed of St. Bernard that can lick the wounds of a stabbing victim. The bleeding will stop instantly, saving the victim's life. One quirky side-effect, however, is that this treatment leaves behind a rather large hole..."	
究	research	"Most research scientists have 9 holes.....two nostrils, two ears, a mouth, and four eyes...... :-)."	7	1320	35		"Scientiest are researching , and have already found nine black holes !"	
魅	fascination	"Ghosts have not yet left the world, they must still have a deep fascination with their past life on Earth."	15	2023	55		"Here the ""Ghostbusters"" founder talks about his fascination for ghosts (picture Dan Arkroyd in the movie if that helps). He says he has a fascination for ghosts ever since he saw one as a teenager. Since then he's been scouring all of the world, trying to capture them on tape, on video... A journalist asks ""When will it end ? Aren't you tired of chasing ghosts ?"" ""Oh no, not yet ! Not until I become a ghost myself anyway !""."	
窒	plug up	Sticking a plug up your hole will lead to stronger climaxes.	11	1321	35		"Here we have a Hole and Climax to mean PLUG UP. This is so butt-f**king easy, pun intended. If you PLUG UP her Hole, she will Climax."	
窃	stealth	"This more commonly means ""steal"", like how a thief cuts a hole to steal the jewels."	9	1322	35		Stealth bombers cut holes through the enemy radar.	
襲	attack	"The top 16 strokes are the chinese radical for ""dragon"". Joining up both meanings of the radical we can name the top part of this kanji ""imperial dragon"". Two-headed snakes do exist as biological curiosities, and they look a bit like a slingshot (with the heads splitting at a junction). Our imperial dragon here, the pet of a Chinese emperor, is a rare ""three-headed slingshot-snake"" kept in a vase and fed with meat. When the emperor attacked neighbours, his army wore the imperial dragon garment."	22	2025	55		You attack an old dragon 龍 and take his clothes. REF: dragon [old] (#2981).	
搾	squeeze	You have trouble squeezing your hand through the hole so you use a saw to enlarge it.	13	1324	35		"(Thanks DrJones) You squeeze the teats of the cow with your fingers but it's your first try and you don't have any milk come through the holes, so you take a saw and cut the teats to make bigger holes. Poor cow, this story squeezes my heart."	
惨	wretched	Whenever I have to visit the relatives... that puts me in one hell of a wretched state of mind.	11	1721	45		Data feels wretched because he has no family to visit.	
探	grope	"A pictograph of a japanese schoolgirl getting groped by perverts on the train. The fingers of course, a crown (her too short skirt) and her legs below (which to be honest are pretty thick like tree trunks)."	11	1327	35		"Note: The combination ""crown +human legs"" appears seven times in Heisig. In four cases (nos. 323, 1327, 1328, 2920) the crown is above the human legs, and in the other three cases (1888, 2472, 2679) one leg passes through the crown. The naming is inconsistent, so I call the first pattern ""Miss World"" (who is wearing a crown she won due to her attractive human legs) and the second ""garter"" (one human leg passes through the crown and wears it as a garter)."	
朕	majestic plural	"The king says ""Only We are allowed to partake of the flesh of the golden calf.""."	10	2027	56		"The golden calf is about the difference between monotheism (one king) and paganism (majestic plural). By giving a flesh offering to the golden calf, the rebellious Israelites showed they still believed in the majestic plural."	
深	deep	"If the groper's ""tree"" goes up the girl's miniskirt too deep, he'll ejaculate fluid. (Sorry it's kinda coarse but it works.)."	11	1328	35		"Thrown in deep water, the Japanese School girl tries to reach a floating tree to save herself."	
雰	atmosphere	"(This is atmosphere as in ambiance, mood). Rain is only part of the atmosphere for a romantic porch date. Food, music, and candles are the rest."	12	2028	56		The part of the sky that is responsible for weather and rain is known as the atmosphere. It only occupies part of the sky though.	
箇	item	"You've entered in a chinese shop where apparently the only item in sale is old, dusty, hardened bamboo (for construction for example). It looks like these items have been there forever. Asking the clerk if anything else is available, he doesn't understand and instead asks - ""Two items? Three items?"" (the kanji is a counter for items) - thinking you want to buy something."	14	2029	56		"Dragon Quest - You find a hardened bamboo stick, perfect for a weapon, but you can't pick it up because your items are full."	
兵	soldier	"Listen up soldiers! We're going to take that hill. You are no longer men with human legs. You are voracious animals, with animal legs! Got it? Animal legs! Now take that hill!"	7	1331	35		"The hill is so steep that you almost have to have animal legs to walk on it. However, the soldiers have no problem because they've been trained to march there."	
対	vis-a-vis	"When sitting vis-a-vis, Scots will glue their kilt down to avoid embaressment."	7	1726	45		"This is a character that is used in Japanese for ""vs."" (as in, ""Alien vs. Predator"")."	
紋	family crest	Who knew that Spiderman was Scottish! He has sewn his family crest onto his uniform.	10	1727	45		A family crest sown on to a garment with thread sometimes has a Latin sentence as a motto.	
罷	quit	My eye doesn't seem to have the ability to quit staring at her...　　　　　RTK2:　ヒ　罷業　ひぎょう(a walkout).	15	2032	56		"Hey, screw you! Don't you look down on me! I have the ability to quit anytime I want!"	
縮	shrink	"After spending the night at an inn, spider man discovered to his dismay that his costume had shrunk in the wash, and no longer fit!"	17	1336	36		"Don't let the Inn wash your threads, they will shrink them!"	
縦	vertical	"When Spider-man does his amazing vertical wall climbing, a throng of photographers accompanies him to get a good shot of the action."	16	1338	36		True vertical can be found by hanging a plumb line - a thread accompanied by a weight.	
線	line	This kanji is used for train lines. Spiderman does a hot spring tour of Japan using the train lines. You can see the Spidey costume hanging on the washing line as he enjoys the onsen.	15	1339	36		Japan's train lines are like threads that spring from Tokyo station.	
藻	seaweed	"Let wooden goods = furniture. Then: Walking along the sea shore you see some washed-up furniture with water (waves) splashing against it. From a distance it looks like flowers are growing out the top, but as you get closer you see it is in fact seaweed."	19	2035	56		Take seaweed (water + flower) and hang it to dry in a tree to produce nori goods.	
締	tighten	"(astridtops) Spiderman managed to get behind the sovereign. (pick your favourite nowadays country ruler who isn't doing a good job). Spidey has tightend a web around the sovereing's throat. As long as the sovereign says what spidey whispers, he will be fine. Sovereign yelping : ' we will draw are troops back! and we will spend more money on healthcare, schools and less on wars!' Spidey whispering: ' If you continue at this pace, you might be doing good things AND the people will like you.'."	15	1340	36		"The sovereign appears to be ruling, but in reality someone behind him (for instance his wife) has a thread around his throat, and if he dares to make a decision she doesn't like, she starts pulling the thread and tightens it around his throat."	
維	fiber	"Hey, Spidey! Eat that turkey if you want, but make sure you eat some fibers: you want spidey threads, don't ya?"	14	1341	36		"If you want to increase your fiber intake, just leave on those threads that are used to sew up the stuffed turkey and eat them too."	
癒	healing	"At the butcher's meeting, all the butcher's who have a heart disease attend the faith healing workshop."	18	2037	56		"Note: meeting of butchers + heart are later combined into 愈 in the nick of time (#2433). Story: For healing to take place, you must catch the sickness in the nick of time."	
練	practice	Spidey stays on the east side of the city to practice. The West Side is too dangerous.	14	1343	36		[+ skinnyneo] Spiderman visits the East to practice his swinging skills. All those Asian cities with skyscrapers and low crime rates make it easy for him to practice.	
薬	medicine	New-age medicine involves using things like music and flowers (aromatherapy) as treatment.	16	1736	45		"Oh man, this medicinal marijuana is making me hear MUSIC and see FLOWERS everywhere..."	
絵	picture	There's never a picture of Spiderman meeting Peter Parker... I wonder why?	12	1346	36		"Peter Parker's editor tells him ""Next time you have a meeting with spiderman take a goddamn picture, you're a photographer after all""."	
統	overall	Spidey is alloted the biggest crime fighter jurisdiction in NYC because his OVERALL arrest record is the best.	12	1347	36		"According to Greek mythology, there's a thread alloted to everyone, and its length is the overall determinant of your fate."	
丑	sign of the cow	"Pictograph of a stanchion, which includes two vertical posts to restrain cows so they can be milked, with a horizontal stroke showing the number of cows per stanchion: one. A stanchion is a great symbol for the SIGN OF THE COW, since modern, domesticated cows are often stanchioned in barns."	5	2040	56		77 cows behind a fence.	
卯	sign of the hare	"You know how missing childrens' pictures often appear on milk cartons? Well here we have a missing hare. His concerned family is having his picture printed on the backs of receipts and even on stamps. So far, however, there has been no SIGN OF THE HARE."	5	2041	56		rabbit ears.	
洋	ocean	This kanji refers to the waters of the Pasheephic ocean.	9	549	21		Remember the story of Jason and the Argonauts from Greek myth? Jason travelled across oceans of water in order to recover the fleece of a certain sheep.	
紀	chronicle	Worst fan fiction ever....SPIDERMAN joins the CHRONICLES of narnia to battle a big SNAKE!!	9	1354	36		In a CHRONICLE the THREAD of the story can twist and turn like a SNAKE.	
紅	crimson	"After Spider-Man is whacked in the head with a I-beam, crimson blood flows from the wound."	9	1355	36		Spiderman crafted a crimson costume to fight crime in.	
納	settlement	Have you heard about patients who have surgery and the doctor mistakenly leaves a medical instrument INSIDE the patient’s body and proceeds to stitch up the patient’s incisions with stitching THREAD? Can you say “malpractice SETTLEMENT”?　.	10	1356	36		"Spider-Man was working as a surgeon's assistant. By accident, he threw his spider webs inside the patient, causing his death. Fortunately, the hospital reached an out-of-court settlement with the victim's family."	
紛	distract	"Spiderman got distracted when someone yelled, ""Spiderman, wait a minute."" He turned around and flew into a building. (""part"" also means ""minute"")."	10	1358	36		"Due to the distractions of being a super-hero, spiderman can only work part-time. (variation on ayoung24's story)."	
約	promise	He tied a thread around the ladle as a reminder of his promise to do more house work.	9	1362	36		"Spiderman promised to get Aunt Mae's ladle back. He started to do a blood oath by spilling drops of blood but Aunt Mae stopped him and bound up the wound. ""It's only a ladle Peter""."	
細	dainty	Dainty women would always rather work with thread than in a field.	11	1363	36		"Spider-Man used to just be a dainty, brainy nerd."	
総	general	Spiderman could not achieve general acceptance by the media even after winning the public's heart.	14	1366	36		To win GENERAL approval THREAD your way into the PUBLIC's HEART.	
緊	tense	"Whenever Venom is tense, he loses control of his sex drive and becomes a slave to his crotch."	15	1374	36		You'd be tense too if you were a slave and your owner removed the threads covering your crotch.	
縄	straw rope	"The tortoise has escaped! We tied it up with a straw rope, but all that's left of the rope are some torn threads, and the unbound tortoise is nowhere to be found. (Note that the right half here is not ""eels"". This is (in my opinion) a mistake in the RTK book, as we already decided in waterfall (#537) to refer to the simplified form of dragon as ""eels"". It is much better to call the right half of this character an ""unbound tortoise"".)."	15	1377	36		"When Spiderman fights the giant tortoise, he grabs a straw rope from the edges of the sumo ring and swings it at his head. However, the tortoise quickly tucks his head back into his shell to avoid the blow (hence no head on the tortoise)."	
幼	infancy	"In its infancy, a butterfly is protected by a cocoon, as it doesn't yet have any power of its own."	5	1378	36		"During their infancy, children are often wrapped up tight like a cocoon (i.e. in those Snugli carriers) and supported by the muscle of their parents."	
機	mechanism	An abacus is a mechanism made of wood used to calculate how many 'anythings'.	16	1382	36		"To avoid confusing with contraption (#677), focus on the ""ism"" of mechanism. For example, fetishism refers to having a fetish; mechanism here refers to having a mecha-like property, where mecha is a type of anime robot that can transform itself. Imagine a mecha that can transform itself between two forms: a huge immovable tree (as a form of defense) and a gigantic marching abacus that smashes enemies between its giant beads."	
慈	mercy	Mercy comes from the doubly mysterious heart of God.	13	1389	36		"Here we see the DOUBLE-MYSTERIOUS Siamese twins again, at the MERCY of the machines that pump blood through their veins, since the single HEART they share won't do the job..."	
孫	grandchild	Your grandchild is the child of your DNA.	10	1393	36		"Your child continues the family lineage by passing on your DNA, giving you a grandchild."	
卸	wholesale	Selling WHOLESALE HORSES over the internet had to be STOPPED because the cost of STAMPS was too much.	9	1397	37		"If you need horseshoes (shoes that fit your horse's footprint), buy them at the wholesale shop. They lick and paste stamps in your membership card so you can get free merchandise later."	
御	honorable	An honorable man will not try to cut in front of the line at the wholesale stamp store. (Imagine just how much honor it takes facing those long lines at the post office!).	12	1398	37		"In front of the COLUMNS of the Capitol, the HONORABLE congressmen can be bought WHOLESALE."	
零	zero	The amount of people that can order the rain to rain.	13	1402	37		"Despite the rain, the zero pilot flies on. He has kamikaze orders."	
鈴	small bell	Some restaurants have a small gold bell to call someone to take customers' orders.	13	1406	37		"In high society, people ring a small golden bell to call their servants and give their orders."	
踊	jump	The winner of the long jump competition was disqualified when they found he used a pogo stick tied to his leg to jump further.	14	1409	37		"The high jumper has his wooden leg fitted with a pogo stick, and can now jump even higher. (See my note at traffic (#1408) for pogo stick). EDIT (2 years later): Keyword ""jump"" leads to confusion later on (see cjon256's post), ""Dancing"" would be better (but be sure to keep it distinct from dance (#1774)). New Story: I was no good at dancing due to my wooden leg... until I had it fitted with a pogo stick!"	
犯	crime	Crimes can often be solved using the tools of dogs and fingerprints.	5	1414	37		This crime gang has yet to be caught because their pack of wild dogs takes care of licking off the fingerprints from all the crime scenes.	
柳	willow	Having decided to use SIGN OF THE HARE rather than RECEIPT and STAMP my mnemonic goes as follows: The WILLOW is the TREE that droops likes a HARE's ears.	9	1421	37		"A strange thing about the japanese willow tree is, it grows eggs... but the eggs have no yokes. weird eh?"	
貿	trade	"There's a buyback program where you can trade in your dagger for money. But it's quite ineffective, since only registered dagger-owners with the original receipts can participate, and not criminals with illegally-purchased daggers."	12	1424	37		The new RANSOM note (a receipt stuck to a door with a dagger) from DETAIN (1423) appears again (probably after you went to the field as instructed) now gives instruction to TRADE the victim for CURRENCY you were told to bring.	
酒	sake	Sake is just watered down whisky.	10	1428	38		Sake is the generic term for alcohol (not just japanese rice wine). And a very popular alcoholic drink in Japan is whiskey and water.	
酌	bartending	"At the local pub, their bartending practises are unusual. They serve the whiskey by pouring it from a ladle, like one would from the punch bowl."	10	1429	38		"Ever seen the anime Bartender? Bartending isn't just about bottles of whiskey, it's about ladling out advice."	
配	distribute	To DISTRIBUTE WHISKY during Prohibition you had to be as sneaky as a SNAKE.	10	1436	38		"In Japan, it's rude to distribute the sake to your self before anybody else."	
豆	beans	"If I eat BEANS, after ONE MOUTHful I fart like some kind of HORNED ANIMAL."	7	1440	38		I hate using primitives that are completely unrelated. Let's call this one Mr. Bean! He's an easy character to build stories with.	
鼓	drum	"Japanese festivals have drums so big, a samurai has to SIT (not stand) on a table to beat one with a tree branch! http://www.d2.dion.ne.jp/~hidafyh/furukawayh/gyouji/image/maturi03.jpg."	13	1444	38		"I really hate the primitive meaning of ""table"" for ""bean."" I just use ""bean."" Anyways, for the DRUM primitive, imagine a SAMURAI who beats on a DRUM with two chopsticks, and a BEAN skewered on each end of the chopstick to produce a better sound. And the obvious story is: ""DRUMing on a DRUM with a huge BRANCH""."	
喜	rejoice	"The samurai sitting on the drum is on a stage, and the people below him are rejoicing with their mouths in unison. It helps me to imagine the placement this way."	12	1445	38		"In the taiko (drum (#1444)) song of rejoicing, the drummers shout with open mouths."	
血	blood	Vampire orders blood in one of those posh restaurants. Imagine his shock when all he gets is a giant white bowl and just a single drop of blood in the centre and a drizzling of balsamic around the edge. Disgusted he calls the manager over tells him its overpriced tosh and bites into his neck with a huge gush of blood spraying everywhere.	6	1448	38		Image: Holy Grail with a drop of Jesus blood on it.	
温	warm	"If you leave water out in the sun in a dish, naturally it will get warm."	12	1452	38		"I ate the sun on a plate, and I now feel warm inside. I had to drink water to stop this burning."	
監	oversee	The slavetrader oversees the slaves washing dishes int he kitchen. No reclining on the floor!	15	1453	38		"The slaves are reclining on the floor when the overseer comes in. They tell him ""We're not goofing off, a dish fell and broke and we're cleaning it off the floor""."	
鑑	specimen	"The overseer tags his slaves with gold earrings, just like specimens."	23	1455	38		"(Thanks bodhisamaya) The authorities are suspicious about the athlete that won GOLD at the olympics. They are now OVERSEEING a thorough drug test, taking all sorts of SPECIMENS."	
猛	fierce	The fierce WILD DOG attacked the CHILD who came near his feeding DISH.	11	1456	38		"If you want to make your wild dogs fierce, feed them a child. Children are the holy grail of dogfood you know..."	
恨	resentment	The athlete's state of mind is nothing but resentment after getting the silver medal.	9	1460	38		Data's greatest resentment is getting a silver medal in Science Olympiad. (Image: Data fuming on the podium muttering about being half robot).	
根	root	"Since trees eat through their roots, one could imagine roots as tree silverware."	10	1461	38		The roots of the magical tree are silver.	
退	retreat	You see a huge army of people in silver armour on the road so you retreat.	9	1465	38		"In the land of Oz, you advance by following the golden road, but you reatreat by following the Silver Road."	
朗	melodious	[Image: 'Moonlight sonata'] The moon has inspired many good composers (like Ludwig van Beethoven) to write something melodious.	10	1469	38		A glowing halo surrounds a magnificent full moon. A perfect image of the mythic and melodious music of the spheres.	
飯	meal	I'm anti-fastfood. Sit down and eat a real meal!	12	1473	38		I'm Anti-McDonald's. Anti-Happy Meal. Anti-hamburger.	
飾	decorate	"[decorate; ornament; adorn; embellish] We decorate a table before eating, reclining a towel over it."	13	1477	38		Naked sushi: a lady reclining on a towel as decoration for the food laid out on her.	
既	previously	"Distinguish from formerly (#501). Think of previously as ""the previous customer"" in a restaurant. At a cheap sleazy diner, the waitress gives you unwashed silverware that was previously used by the previous customer. Yuck."	10	1481	38		"For the waitress primitive, I don't really see the receipt. So instead, I imagine a waitress holding a plate above her head, using those legs to weave through the tables."	
希	hope	"Wolverine (sheaf, see reap (#1488)) hopes they invent linen sheets that he won't keep shredding in his sleep."	7	1489	39		"""I hope this works,"" you say as you stuff a sheaf of stalks under your blanket but above your linens. Your real hope is that your parents don't find out that you left the house."	
凶	villain	"Here the villain digs a hole with a shovel and covers it with a sheaf, hoping someone will fall in."	4	1490	39		"Wolverine (sheaf, see reap (#1488)) takes out a villain who can't be cut by smacking the crap out of him with a shovel."	
殺	kill	"Wolverine (sheaf, see reap (#1488)) leaps over a tree and with one swipe of his claws kills a bad guy aiming a missle launcher."	10	1493	39		"I suppose when this kanji was made, it was most effective to kill your enemies with sheafs of wood used as missiles."	
純	genuine	Earthworm Jim's prized possession is a genuine copy of the #1 issue of Spiderman.	10	1494	39		You need to attach a genuine earthworm to the thread. With plastic bait you won't catch anything.	
避	evade	"You can try and evade them, but they'll ketchup with you on the road... Sorry, couldn't resist it."	16	1501	39		"In order to evade the bear, you lie down on the road, put ketchup on yourself, and play dead."	
新	new	"(I don't like the 'red pepper plant' primative so I just go for standing atop a tree). Here we have the woodcutter standing atop a tree waving his brand new axe. ""Look what I got for christmas, yippee!""."	13	1502	39		"Axe-man grows a patch of red pepper plants in his back garden. He rubs red peppers on the edge of his axes, and this seems to keep them sharp like brand new."	
幸	happiness	happiness is the ONE bite of SPICY curry.	8	1505	39		"This is one of those rare occasions when I forgo Heisig for other methods. 「幸せから一本取ると辛い」 -- if you take but one stroke away from happiness, you get painfulness. (oh well, Heisig used similar one for 百)."	
執	tenacious	"Tenacious-D is happy band led by a fat man. (It's Tenacious-D time, ya muthafucka', gwaoh!)."	11	1506	39		"To be tenacious, you need to have deep stores of happiness (so troubles don't discourage you) and you need to be big and round (so hunger doesn't drive you to give up). The most tenacious person of all time was happy round Buddha!"	
陵	mausoleum	"land (#1513) However, the pinnacle that the rice-seedlings finally reach with the use of their walking legs turns out not to be the Promised Land after all, but simply a mausoleum (containing many dead rice-seedlings exhausted from previous quests?). Oh no!"	11	1518	39		On top of The Pinnacle is a masoleum for rice seedling farmers. They make an annual walking pilgrimage there.	
亥	sign of the hog	A greedy hog in a top hat who has eaten all of the acorns. He even elbows people out of the way to get them.	6	1519	39		"Top Hat + Elbow + Person: The sign of the hog was a very recognizable tattoo - a hog with a big grin in a top hat, sticking his elbow into the person next to him."	
譲	defer	"(thanks chamcham) A graduate student in anthropology tells the University that he plans to defer his studies for a year, and instead conduct ""field research"" on the grass-skirt-wearing native women on the island of Jou."	20	1528	39		The islanders defer to the words of their chief Jou in his grass skirt.	
素	elementary	"When he was growing up, Venom never had many friends in elementary school. Maybe it explains why he turned out how he did."	10	1532	40		"This is a pictogram of string theory. Strings are the most elementary particles of matter, which then grow up to become matter itself."	
麦	barley	"If you eat lots of barley, you'll grow up to have strong walking legs."	7	1533	40		"Barley is a very cheap grain, and it's not really worth spending time to harvest. Therefore, scientists have genetically engineered it to grow walking legs once the grain is grown up and mature, so it can harvest itself."	
請	solicit	"That door-to-door salesman can stand outside ringing my doorbell until he's blue in the face. There's a big sign on my front door, and the words clearly say ""No Soliciting""."	15	1536	40		Going through smurf blue light district - heres a smurfette saying all sorts of dirty words trying to solicit herself.	
情	feelings	"Data is feeling blue about not having any feelings ... hey, wait a minute."	11	1537	40		Feeling blue is a state of mind where you're dominated by your feelings.	
静	quiet	"When someone you know who is normally talkative goes quiet, it's usually a sign that they are contending with the blues."	14	1540	40		"""And the next contender is.... a Smurf!"" As you can imagine, the crowd goes quiet with shock."	
責	blame	"As one grows up, one typically starts to blame all of their problems on money."	11	1541	40		"This is the story of a poor fisherman and his wife. A long time ago he caught an oyster with a small but precious pearl. The intelligent wife told him to sell the pearl immediately: the greedy husband figured if he kept the oyster and fed it, it would grow up and yield an even bigger pearl. One day the oyster grew so big, it crashed through the house and escaped back to sea. The angry wife left her husband, blaming his blind greed for their poverty."	
付	adhere	"賀 TO EVERYONE WHO MADE IT TO 千 kanji!! Remember, after this, you'll be 読ing japanese novels, the news, and the internet like a native. 吉 to ALL of you in your amazing japanese 往. :)."	5	1000	27		"If a PERSON ADHERES to something, they stick to it like GLUE."	
積	volume	"On many wheat cereal boxes, there is a disclaimer stating that ""This package is sold by weight, not by volume. Some settling of contents may have occurred."" well they only say that because they don't want to be blamed by people getting really disappointed after they see what a small volume of cereal the box really contains."	16	1543	40		The volume of the wheat crop is way down this year! Blame the weather!	
汽	vapor	Water vapor almost looks like a spirit but has no soul.	7	1886	51		"Wolverine disappears into water vapor, seemingly his spirit dissipating into nothingness."	
債	bond	Mr. T's plot of world domination is foiled. Who is to blame? Bond. James Bond.	13	1544	40		[bond; loan; debt] Mr. T buys a lot of high risk bonds and then blames his broker when they all plummet in value.	
貸	lend	"In order for the bank to lend you money, you need to put up some sort of collateral as a substitute for the money."	12	1007	27		The poor substitute teacher asks the class to lend him some money for the bus fare home.	
貨	freight	Freight is the shells (money) paid to change the location of something big. Don't confuse with the similar 賃 fare (#1004).	11	1010	27		"This is a freight train that runs on spare change. Imagine getting on the freight train with a bunch of spare change. You put in some change and it starts up...goes for a few minutes, then starts to slow down. You look at the slot..there's actually a slot for spare change and one for regular shells. Your call, but it seems to prefer spare change over shells."	
俵	bag	Mr. T's punching bag has one beat up surface.	10	1547	40		Do you know why every person in Japan has a Louis Vuitton bag? After the 1985 JAL air crash that killed 520 people (the world's worst). An image on tv of the crash showed Louis Vuitton bags (whose LV logo covered surface was somehow impervious) litering the crash site. From that point on they stuck in Japanese people's mind's as durable and high quality. (True story).	
妻	wife	Ten rakes woman. your wife digs her fingernails into you and it feels like 10 rakes when she finds you ontop of another woman.	8	1889	51		"(I'm really not sexist, this just helps me remember the kanji): I make my WIFE do all the yard work, and as a really mean joke, I bought her TEN RAKES for her birthday this year. ""Do the yardwork, WOMAN! You have TEN perfectly good RAKES to choose from!""."	
潔	undefiled	"To ensure she remained undefiled, a young girl growing up in a rough area always kept a dagger concealed under her threads, even when she went into the water."	15	1548	40		"(rgravina) To ensure she remained undefiled, a young girl growing up in a rough area always kept a dagger concealed under her Spiderman underwear (to remember the position of thread), even when she went into the water."	
衰	decline	"If you thought that the dude in 哀 was pathetic, you haven't seen him after his decline. Here he is carrying a stick around in his mouth like a dog, begging people to throw it for him. Note that the mouth is closed only after the stick goes in, as is only logical."	10	1890	51		"If you thought that the dude in 哀 was pathetic, you haven't seen him after his decline. Here he is carrying a stick around in his mouth like a dog, allowing people to rent him and play catch with him for money!"	
契	pledge	"Imagine a totalitarian regime where, while growing up, you have to pledge allegiance to the flag at dagger-point and with St. Bernard guard dogs watching you."	9	1549	40		"In order to pledge into her sorority, Alice had to stab a St. Bernard with a dagger. (Come on! DO it, Alice!)."	
丙	third class	"In this third class flight, the seatbelts are so bad that with the slightest turbulence all the persons hit the ceiling. (it's almost pictographic here!)."	5	1020	27		But third class is so small Mr. T's head hits the celing.	
害	harm	"With kids growing up in your house, you have to keep them from harm of putting anything in their mouth, paint chips, bleach, knvies, etc."	10	1551	40		"This is silly, but.. If a house suddenly grows up from your mouth, you will come to great harm."	
面	mask	"When Jim Carrey puts on The Mask, he can make it seem like he has 100 eyes popping out of his head."	9	1892	51		"If you're wearing a mask, a hundred eyes can look at you but none of them will know who you are."	
轄	control	"The roads are icy, and a whole bunch of cars have spun out of control! Luckily, it was just a couple of dents; nobody was harmed."	17	1552	40		Control is very important! Especially when operating a car. Few people realize the harm they can cause just by losing control of their car for a second. Tremendous harm. Stay in control!	
革	leather	You can feed twenty mouths for a year for the price of ten leather coats.	9	1893	51		"I asked the street vendor the price of the LEATHER jacket. He said TWENTY, but with my MOUTH, I talked him down to TEN. (correct stroke order)."	
割	proportion	"[proportion; comparatively; divide; cut; separate; split] Hey, don't take this out of proportion! I did you just a little harm, no need to come over here with a saber..."	12	1553	40		"As shown on this pie-chart, the proportion of people harmed by sabres is relatively a small slice compared to those harmed by guns."	
併	join	"Mr. T furiously works a puzzle in an attempt to join Mensa, the high-IQ society."	8	1030	28		"""Why do I gotta join these two puzzle pieces? I ain't got time for joining no jigsaw-jabba!"" Mr. T apparently gets a severe case of crankypants when doing puzzles."	
生	life	"This is the first CELL of a human, the foundation of its entire LIFE, a small DROP that will GROW UP to form a complex organism."	5	1555	40		Growing Up is just a Drop of our LIFE.	
覇	hegemony	"In the Old West, cowboys had hegemony OVER the Indians despite their leathercraft and ability to navigate by the moon."	19	1895	51		"In the old west, animal skins were made into leather and their flesh was eaten, thus using the whole animal, which viewed from the animal side could be taken as humans asserting complete hegemony over them. All your base are belong to us."	
星	star	The sun is the nearest star to the only planet with life - Earth.	9	1556	40		Sun is a star that has given life. Can't say that of any other stars yet.	
声	voice	"When an enemy's flag is raised, a true samurai can split it in half with just his voice."	7	1896	51		"Having lost his voice, the samurai comunicated to his troops with a striped flag."	
姓	surname	"When women marry, they adopt the surname of their husband, signifiying the start of a new life together. (adapted from gorgon)."	8	1557	40		"Woman change their surname when they ""start their new life""."	
幣	cash	A counterfeiter is using a shredder to shred a towel in order to print up some cash (he needs some rag paper) .	15	1040	28		"In order to create some cash, first you feed a towel through a shredder to get the raw materials. (""Paper"" money isn't plain paper; it's mostly linen.)."	
換	interchange	"After months of practice, you finally managed to teach a nice trick to your sled-pulling four bound up St. Bernard dogs: one snap of your fingers and they interchange their positions."	12	1043	28		"On the snap of your fingers, the four St. Bernard dogs bound up interchange places."	
産	products	"If you were to stand up all the products you have accumulated over the course of your entire life on top of one another, the result would probably be as tall as a cliff."	11	1560	40		"The salesman is standing on the cliff's edge. ""Buy my products!! Buy my products! Or else I'll take my own life""! Man, that's selling on pressure."	
誤	mistake	"It is a rookie mistake to believe the words when your sweetie says ""You don't have to give me anything for my birthday."" Trust me, your sweetie wants something, something shiny, and if you disappoint, you will suffer."	14	1899	51		You must give words of apology when you make a mistake.	
隆	hump	"You are struggling to the top across the humps, but you suddenly see the pinnacle and you feel new life in your walking legs."	11	1561	40		A woman takes her bra off and what happens? Nine months later the hump in her belly pops out between her legs as a new life.	
蒸	steam	"This kanji is used in compounds for the steaming of food and also for smoking/fumigation. Here we have the Japanese once again trying to replicate the French cuisine, only with a twist, steaming food with flowers (think of flower-smoked ham for example). Flowers must first be completely soaked in water, and then poured over a thin piece of flooring under which there is an oven fire."	13	1900	51		Note: complete + water + floor are later combined into 丞 helping hand (#2919). Story: The driver of a steam train asks you for a helping hand and explains that your job is to throw flowers on the fire to make the steam.	
峰	summit	"""Walking legs"" over ""bushes"" needs to have a primitive meaning of its own. It appears in several kanji, such as 縫 sew (#1563), 逢 tryst (#2417), 蜂 bee (#2687), and 鋒 sword's point (#2768), and it is clumsy to work bushes and walking legs into every story. ""Pointy"" works fairly well: the walking legs are stuck on top of the pointy part of the bush; and for this character: a summit is the pointy end of a mountain."	10	1562	40		Moses climbs to the summit of the mountain using his walking legs to talk to the burning bush.	
尿	urine	"Animals use their urine to mark their territory. So for them, their body water works as a flag denoting their ""country"" (why bother? we all know which story you are going to pick)."	7	1053	29		"Someone is pissing on the American flag, but since the urine is clear it looks like water."	
塀	fence	"[fence; wall; (kokuji)] A fence separates one soil from the other. On a large scale, large pieces of soils in the world have a virtual fence called nation. Picture a world map where all countries have their soil with one color, their national flag as the legend and a fence on the borders... don't you think it looks like a giant puzzle?"	12	1056	29		"Why the Earth has to be fenced off and flags used to represent each ""country"" is a puzzle to me - we're all just monkeys on a big rock spinning round the Sun!"	
寿	longevity	"This old China man glued shrubs to his body. The added intake of oxygen from the shrubs was, according to him, the secret of his longevity. Sometimes he would sit all day in meditation without moving, and the locals believed the old man had actually turned into a shrub !"	7	1565	40		"To ensure longevity of her virginity, Alice applied a thick layer of glue on her bush."	
極	poles	"Can simplify this using decay (#1243). Then: The expedition to the poles is bad for your health, and the decay that started in your mouth spreads to your crotch – at which point you fall to the floor."	12	1903	51		"(modified Katsuo) Can simplify this using decay (#1243). You travel to the poles, a frozen wasteland. In desperate need of food you try to set up a snare but the tree is decayed (see story for decay (#1243)) so you catch no prey. The brutal cold first attacks your mouth as your lips turn blue, then your crotch also gets cold as your body fails; finally you fall to the floor."	
鋳	casting	They made a metal casting of the Chinese man who glued shrubs to himself to increase his longevity. It's now sold around the world as it's thought that having one will increase your own longevity..	15	1566	40		You make a casting of your baby's shoes in gold to ensure the longevity of the experience.	
牙	tusk	"He stored the tusks into a box, along with the broken halberds."	4	1904	52		The kanji looks like an elephant with tusks. the box is the elephant's eye. The final stroke is the tusk.	
籍	enroll	"Once upon a time, in order to enroll in a Christian school you had to answer a series of questions to ensure that you were really Christian. For example, the principal might show you a picture of a Christmas tree and a picture of some bamboo and ask you which one is most suitable for decoration at Christmas time."	20	1567	40		"Once upon a time, Santa Claus visited Asia and left presents under bamboo Christmas trees for all the children who enrolled in his Asian beta-testing..."	
春	springtime	In the springtime bonsai get plenty of sun.	9	1568	40		When it's springtime you can only leave the bonsai out when the sun has gone down. Their little leaves can't handle too much heat.	
芽	bud	Zoo keepers are baffled as to why the tips of the elephant's tusks keep budding into flowers.	8	1905	52		Buds while they're still small tend to be tusk-shaped.	
椿	camellia	"The tree of spring. Fact: Camellia are highly valued in Japan and elsewhere for their very early flowering, often among the first flowers to appear in the late winter [early spring?]."	13	1569	40		Anyone who's lived in Japan knows camellia are by far the first tree of spring to flower. And how can you miss those shockingly pink flowers!	
邪	wicked	The wicked queen builds her city walls out of menacing tusks.	8	1906	52		"As everyone knows, rhinoceroses and elephants are often killed for the value of their TUSKS. Here we see a WICKED city mayor who has had countless elephants killed just to make his CITY WALLS out of TUSKS."	
泰	peaceful	If you look into Japanese gardens they seem so peaceful - with their small bonsais and the white stones looking like rice grains.	10	1570	40		Simplistic and peaceful life: A bonsai to trim and enough rice to eat...　RTK2:　タイ　泰国　たいこく (Thailand).	
雅	gracious	"""Goodness gracious! Such an elegant turkey with a tusk."" This mnemonic is meant to join RtK's keyword with a better proposition. Heisig could have used ""elegant"" here, which is not confounded so easily with graceful (#721), and accurately represents the character's meaning (it is also the chosen keyword in Kodansha's Kanji Learner's Dictionary)."	13	1907	52		"To not confuse it with grace (#606) or graceful (#721), think of the phrase ""Goodness gracious."" Like: ""Goodness gracious! A turkey with tusks!""."	
奏	play music	"When you play music to them, your bonsai will grow like they are in heaven."	9	1571	40		"In heaven you are surrounded by bonsai trees (full-sized ones fall through the clouds) while you play music on your harp. I always have trouble remembering that the bonsai tree is on top, so think of them growing on top of the clouds."	
肩	shoulder	The shoulder is the best part of the body to bash a door open with (Don't ever try this. Use your foot).	8	1077	29		"The shoulder is part of the body you use to push through the noren in a doorway. I was having trouble with positioning of the primitives until I tweaked shaydwyrm's story slightly. If you think of pushing through a noren, this makes sense as a pictograph. The noren hangs from above, and you push through it from below."	
炉	hearth	"This hearth is equipped with a fire-proof door. On the kanji you can see somewhat pictographically the fire-proof door keeping the fire behind, and nothing comes under the door primitive, where you would have expected to see another primitive."	8	1080	29		"-""Honey? Do we have any wood left for the hearth?"" -""Aagh, just use the frickin' door!""."	
俸	stipend	"Mr. T gets a stipend every month if he stays dedicated to his temple training, a very hard thing for the impatient T."	10	1574	40		People who are highly dedicated to their jobs get good salaries/stipends.	
審	hearing	"At your divorce hearing the judge tells you to roll dice to see who keeps the house. (""I can't believe what I'm hearing!"" you say)."	15	1910	52		In the courthouse the judge decides your hearing with a roll of the dice.	
棒	rod	"Ha! If you know anything about Buddhist monks, during meditation, they're slapped with wooden rods to stay dedicated to their task."	12	1575	40		The wood from this tree is dedicated to making rods to flog naughty kids.	
礼	salutation	"""Indy, my friend, you must be very careful! If you approach the altar and do not give the proper salutation a large fishhook will rip you away""."	5	1087	30		You should fish hook (bend/bow) your body before an altar as a form of salutation to God/gods.	
福	blessing	"This recalls the selling of indulgences in the history of the Church (As an aside, Protestantism began as a protest of this practice). Basically, one gave wealth to the altar (i.e. priest) and received a blessing. If you prefer a Jewish version, think of the donation (wealth) that is expected when you're called to the ark (altar in the kanji) to give a blessing over the torah."	13	1090	30		Put all your wealth on the church altar and receive one blessing. (You stand up out of your wheelchair or something.).	
漢	Sino-	"In the water between Japan and China, the Sino- side has put scarecrows in the water to try and keep the Japanese away."	13	1578	40		"Take the left to be ""kanji"" not scarecrow. Sino- (Chinese) people had to put a lot of sweat into learning the kanji. See the drops of sweat coming off."	
毛	fur	"I've heard of people having hair on the back of their hands, but this is ridiculous! That's not hair, that's fur!"	4	1913	52		Be careful not to pet a cat the wrong way - most cats don't like you rubbing your hand backwards over their fur.	
嘆	sigh	"A sigh escapes the mouth of the scarecrow, who laments: ""...if I only had a brain, I could learn kanji""."	13	1579	40		I will let out a huge sigh of relief from my mouth when I learn the last kanji.	
耗	decrease	"The amount of ""fur"" (needles) on a Christmas tree decreases, until it doesn't look all that good."	10	1914	52		Real fur coats and real christmas trees are dereasing the last couple of years. Plasctic chrismas trees and fake fur it is nowadays.	
難	difficult	It is difficult for a scarecrow to scare a turkey or else they would've been called scareturkeys.	18	1580	40		Learning Kanji is difficult for Turkeys.	
宗	religion	I never really did figure out what religion my host family was - all I knew was that they kept an altar in their home.	8	1100	30		"All the RELIGIONS have their own temples, which are houses where they place their altars."	
垂	droop	"For an old man with a walking stick, even a drop of silage to carry on his back will make him droop low down to the floor."	8	1582	40		Even a drop of silage is enough to make an old man with a walking stick droop low down to the floor. (rgravina - fixed up order).	
睡	drowsy	Our eyes droop when we are drowsy.	13	1583	40		"Hint : the eyes of Droopy Dog (see droop (#1582)). When you are drowsy you have ""droopy eyes"". That is, you have Droopy's eyes!"	
託	consign	"When you consign a matter to someone, you get their word and a lock of their hair (to be used in a voodoo ritual if they don't keep their word)."	10	1917	52		"In ""The Lord of the Rings"", Galadriel consigned a lock of her hair to Gimli the dwarf, along with some wise words."	
錘	spindle	Wasn't it a cursed spindle that Sleeping Beauty pricked her finger on? Therefore the spindle was the metal that caused her to droop and eventually sleep for 100 years.	16	1584	40		Spindle: the needle that drops on an LP record player. This is made of metal. It droops. Viola.	
為	do	"In this kanji, you can see 3 katakana characters: ソ, ユ, and then ユ again followed by TAIL FEATHERS. STORY: ""So (ソ) you (ユ) wanna DO it?"" ""Only if you (ユ) do"" says the female bird as she raises her TAIL FEATHERS."	9	1918	52		"Do me from behind, says the bird, as she shakes her tailfeathers."	
乗	ride	It's a hay ride! You sit on piles of silage and everyone likes to imitate old-time farmers with a piece of wheat sticking out of their mouths.	9	1585	40		"[ride; power; multiplication; record; counter for vehicles; board; mount; join] In the near future, we hope to ride on biomass fueled vehicles. Good news for those who have wheat silage surplus."	
甲	armor	"Funny.. this appeared to me as a pictograph of a samurai's armor. Then I looked up images of the samurai armor and it is not even remotely similar. Then I realised it looks in fact like the belly of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, which I somehow associated with the samurai armor because of the ""turtle samurai"" that appeared earlier. Fits me. The bit that pokes down is to protect the genitals, I guess."	5	1113	30		It looks like a bird's eye view of a tank (modern armor).	
今	now	My MEETING is at 7- but that's NOW!	4	1587	41		(re: ruuku35) The meeting is not at quarter to seven but now!	
長	long	The Geisha with long hair uses an ornate lacquered hairpin to bundle it all up.	8	1920	52		"The top of this one reminds me of the staple primitive. So here's my story: The girl's hair was so long that she had to use staples instead of hairpins. It worked, but stapling her hair to her head was kinda painful."	
含	include	This clock includes a mouth that will tell you what the time is now. Hearing impaired people have this kind of watches... now imagine them as a big mouth under the clock.	7	1588	41		Batteries included with this clock. Open the mouth at the back and insert them after purchase.	
張	lengthen	"The longbow is follows the design of a standard bow, only it has been lengthened."	11	1921	52		"Legolas recieves spam telling him that his can lengthen his ""bow""...he smirks...he know's it's already long enough."	
吟	versify	"A rapper is trying to versify, but sucks: Hickery dickery dock, the mouth spat out the clock. I'm gonna shoot you with my glock, if you don't suck my cock! Versify!"	7	1589	41		"To versify, words of rhythm needs to shoot out of your MOUTH with a CLOCK-like regularity."	
帳	notebook	In ancient China books were rolled-up scrolls of paper. So notebooks were nothing more than long towels.	11	1922	52		"Students, for this class, your notebook will be a towel. Make sure it's extra long though, we'll have a lot of writing."	
念	wish	Someone wishing from the bottom of their heart that the clock would stop. A mid-life crisis perhaps.	8	1590	41		Remember in the Wizard of Oz when the tin man wished for a heart and the wizard gave him that dinky little clock instead?	
所	place	You outsiders better learn your place! An axe stuck in the door when you get home is a pretty good indicator that this might not be the best place for you.	8	1127	31		A place for everything and everything in its place. To the right of the door is the standard place for the axe.	
陰	shade	"The only shade at The Pinnacle is in the shadow of the giant clock tower, or from a rising cloud."	11	1592	41		"Frosty the snowman is running around the pinnacle, staying in the shade. As he looks at his clock to see how much longer he can last, small clouds rise (steam) from his body. Nooo, Frosty!"	
髪	hair of the head	"Japanese teenage girls consider the style of the hair of the head very important. If a particular style is trendy, soon they all want their own hair in the same shape as that of their friends."	14	1924	52		Friends influence the length and shape of each other's hair.	
予	beforehand	"Beforehand, this was a halberd but I cut it short so it could be for hand to hand combat."	4	1593	41		"Your halberd doesn't have a handguard? You should have thought of that beforehand (i.e., before you were missing your hand)."	
展	unfold	You use an American flag to wrap up a salad for a picnic and bind it with a hairpin. Now imagine unfolding it to open up the bounty you've fixed up for yourself.	10	1925	52		"Unfold flag, take out the salad, pin the flag down with hairpins and have a picnic."	
序	preface	The preface to all human history was written beforehand in caves.	7	1594	41		"Rename the ""beforehand"" part to be glove (because you have to wear gloves beforehand if you want to wield the halberd, which is why this primitive is an incomplete halberd). The story: a winter morning. A textbook author is holed up in his tiny office, a veritable cave. He wants to start his masterpiece textbook by first writing the preface. But he can't get started. He sits and stares at empty paper until evening. It gets cold and he puts on gloves, shivering, but still unable to start his preface."	
質	substance	What is this substance on this clam? I've already broken 2 axes on it! (Good question...質問).	15	1137	31		"Another keyword that I do not like by Heisig. 質【しつ】 (n,n-suf) quality. Story: Your at a local ax dealer and you have TWO AXES which you are testing for QUALITY by trying to split CLAMS right down the opening. Picture yourself succeeding with one AX and then some weird SUBSTANCE comes out of the shell...eww (I don't like clams)."	
野	plains	"These days we all work in front of computers. Beforehand we all worked out in the fields, in the plains."	11	1596	41		"The plains are a challenging place to get any work done. Be sure you recharge your computer's battery beforehand, or you won't get anything done."	
巣	nest	Owls only nest in fruit trees.	11	1927	53		"The wise old OWL makes her nest out of FRUIT, carving out the middle for her chicks, because then it's less work: no running back & forth to get food!"	
兼	concurrently	"Our ninja hero, disguised as a gardener with a rake, is suddenly attacked from both left and right concurrently by bulls with animal horns. Our hero lets out a blood-curdling scream and tears his rake handle vertically in half, so he now has two wooden staffs (split rake handle) to fight with. He grips each staff (left side and right side) and rams it into the horns of the charging bulls. The force of each charging bull causes the tips of each staff to split again (split bottom of each rake handle)."	10	1597	41		"You decide to take the bull by the horns and do both chores concurrently, grabbing your double-handled rake before attempting to clean up both your's and your neighbours' garden. But unfortunately, it's not long until your rake splits in two."	
単	simple	Owls are smart...for this owl everything is simple coz his brain is ten times more powerful than mine.	9	1928	53		An owl's brain is ten times smarter than other simple minded birds…　RTK2:　タン　簡単　かんたん(simple).	
嫌	dislike	"Naturally, if you're dating more than one woman concurrently, they will certainly dislike each other!"	13	1598	41		Attempting to court two women concurrently will make them both dislike you.	
戦	war	"George W. Bush's plans for war were so SIMPLE. To him, its all just a big FIESTA."	13	1929	53		"So there's this fiesta in downtown Compton. It's a simple party, but someone invited people from the wrong gangs and the simple fiesta turns into an all-out turf war."	
鎌	sickle	This is a special sickle with metal blades on both sides. It can cut many things concurrently!	18	1599	41		The gold sickle of the USSR flag represents both leaders and workers laboring concurrently.	
婦	lady	"In high society, a lady is a woman who never touches a broom or an apron."	11	1151	31		The LADY of the house is nothing more than a WOMAN who's a HOUSEWIFE (BROOM and APRON anyone?).	
廉	bargain	"Stores don't want you to know it, but if you find the secret cave, they run bargains there concurrently to their regular prices. (Image: pulling a certain level in a store to find the ""bargain cave)."	13	1601	41		"If you have several sellers competing concurrently, one will cave in and give you a bargain…　RTK2:　レン　廉売　れんばい(bargain)…　MIXED GROUP: 鎌1599　(ｹﾝ): 兼1597　嫌1598　謙1600."	
弾	bullet	Hunting with a bow is too complicated. I'm switching to something simpler--using a bullet.	12	1931	53		"The bow was a weapon for simple times, but nowadays it has been replaced by bullets."	
西	west	The old west represented by a completely empty whiskey bottle (compare sign of the bird (#1427) whiskey bottle about one third full).	6	1602	41		Note: this kanji is also used to denote Spain.	
桜	cherry tree	"I was taking a picture of my girlfriend under the cherry tree during 花見, when an owl happened to poop on her at the exact moment the shutter snapped. It's really my favorite picture , just don't tell her that."	10	1932	53		"The tree in Japan that represents both wisdom (the owl) and femininity (the woman). This is a sakura (さくら), or cherry tree."	
価	value	"Mr. T has a high value in the Old West because you see him in ""Wanted"" posters all over the place! (thanks fiminor)."	8	1603	41		"What might it mean for a person in the old west to be of value? Their face is on a ""Wanted!"" poster, of course. Imagine the reward..."	
伊	Italy	"The ""boot"" of Italy has gotten Europe all muddy. Who else could mop it up but Mr T?"	6	1161	31		"Here I have Mister T cleaning up with a mop, a real mess of spaghetti, in front of the Piza (in Italy)."	
群	flock	Good ol' boys are like sheep; they tend to flock together.	13	1163	31		"A little girl herder calls out, ""羊君、きて！"" to the sheeps and they flock to her at once."	
悩	trouble	The owl villain is the one that troubles me most of all the super-villains. He's just so smart... you never know what he'll do! Definitely enough to put you in a troubled state of mind.	10	1935	53		Data's brain quickly allerts him to the state of trouble when he see's the brainy owl villain.	
漂	drift	"In Florida, Bush through Kerry's ballots into the water, watching them drift away and setting the whole country adrift."	14	1607	41		The political fanatic stole all the ballots and dumped them in the stream. He calmly watched them drift away as the cops came to a screech behind him.	
標	signpost	"Trees were frequenly used as signposts in those days, indicating where one had to go to cast their ballots."	15	1608	41		"Large wooden signposts are planted on peoples lawns, with the faces of their representatives all saying: ""Vote [1] Me!"" for the upcoming ballot."	
満	full	Add water THEN the flowers. With both the vase will be full.	12	1169	31		"I was thirsty so I gulped down the water. Then I realized I was also hungry. So I ate the flowers. Yes, I am responsible for both the missing water and the missing flowers. Yes, I'm afraid both. Am I still hungry or thirsty? Thank you for asking! How kind! But no, I feel quite full now."	
挙	raise	This is a special owl-luring tool. All you need is to raise it in your hand. Owl will come flying and perch on it right away.	10	1938	53		"The owl was asked to raise his hand if he needed anything, but he had a wing, not a hand! So he made a tool that looked like a hand which he used when he needed to raise his hand. For raiseing, owl has a tool hand."	
覆	capsize	"The U.S.S. Old West has capsized, and all the cowboys on board are trying to restore her upright."	18	1611	41		"Remember Oregon Trail? Remember how you had to float your wagon across rivers to get to the Old West? Well, sometimes that wagon capsizes. Once that happens you'd better quickly head to the nearest town to restore."	
煙	smoke	"In the Old West, they used to light fires in the ground to make smoke signals."	13	1612	41		"Should be easy. SMOKE brings to mind ""Where there's SMOKE, there's FIRE"". So, the FIRE in the OLD WEST can tell people we're you're at, so put out the FIRE with SOIL to keep the SMOKE to a minimum."	
猟	game hunting	"[game-hunting; shooting; game; bag] According to unicode.org and wwwjdic, 鼡 and 鼠 (mouse (#2065)) are variants. So, for 鼡 (which I'll call rat) I have: an owl, flying in the wind, can easily spot a rat even if it's hiding in the cornstalks. Now 猟 is easy: wild dogs are having fun by game-hunting rats."	11	1940	53		The WILD DOGS are GAME HUNTING the OWL who flies like the WIND through the CORN STORKS.	
槽	vat	"Also as part of some army survival exercise, the cadets (including Bender see frame 1172) are sent into the woods to build a vat (for collecting water for example)."	15	1176	31		"Bender the Cadet (kudos to Fuaburisu) is found on an army training exercise, hiding behind a tree, getting drunk on the famous scotch whiskey Vat 69."	
鳴	chirp	A chirp is quite simply the sound that comes from the mouth of birds.	14	1942	53		"This kanji is not limited to the chirp of a bird, but stands for the sound of any kind of animal. Picture a very weird bird that can imitate with its mouth (a bird with mouth, heh) the voice of many different animals: Meeow! Woof! Mooo! Cuack!!! (Maybe the bird has Kirby powers and obtains the abilities of the animals it eats)."	
門	gates	"Heisig's stroke order in the 4th edition (and earlier) is wrong, so be careful -- first is the left-most vertical stroke, then draw the rest of the ""sun"" attachment as you would normally. In fact, if you just wrote it out as two suns with elongated sides, you'll get the stroke order exactly correct."	8	1616	42		The gates to Hell. guarded by Cerebus or ... Bill Gates?	
図	map	"Can't see direct relation to Big Dipper (#1177) since its writing order is completely different. As raulir noted, it's written as overlapping at the last stroke of ツ and the first of メ. I take it as a pictograph or treasure map. Two dots represent big trees and the cross (marking the treasure) is placed relative to them."	7	1180	31		"A pictograph of a treasure map. Two steps east then X marks the spot. 図る はかる attempt, deceive; 地図 ちず map; 意図する いとする make a goal, intend to do."	
烏	crow	"The book's story is just fine, but I found a kanji dictionary explanation also interesting: As crows are all black, it's hard to see where their eyes are (black on black), so a stroke is removed from the part in the pictograph where the eyes would be."	10	1944	53		"A crow is a bird, but not a white one. MEANING: write bird, but skip writing one in white."	
閥	clique	You set a guard at the gate to fell intruders not of your clique.	14	1619	42		"The felled souls of the world, cut down like trees, pass through the gates of hell and join the clique."	
鳩	pigeon	Feed one pigeon and nine more birds will be swarming you immediately…　RTK2:　On list of rare or no official Chinese reading.	13	1946	53		Imagine some pigeons going to see a baseball game. They would surely be the only birds there!	
鶏	chicken	The vulture's husband is a chicken...heck...who am I to judge their interspecies love? They're both birds so its cool.	19	1947	53		"A continuation of mountain stream (#840) (which happens to have the same chinese pronunciation) : the husband who was saved by the great eagle says to his wife that from now on, they will eat chicken ! No more fishing hardships and falling in the water.. just raising birds. Every now and then the great eagle comes to visit and the man offers one of his chicken to the great eagle who had saved his life."	
散	scatter	"The taskmaster is dissatisfied with the meal she's served, and scatters the salad & meat across the floor for the servants to clean up."	12	1189	32		"Perhaps you've heard of Nyotaimori or Nantaimori (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nyotaimori) in which sushi is ate from the flesh of a naked person, the story comes easily. Scatter salad over the flesh of the taskmaster in preperation for some nantaimori :)."	
暖	warmth	Ducks migrate south for the winter... they follow the warmth of the sun.	13	1949	53		"A massive group of migrating ducks is blocking the warmth of the sun as they pass over your house/barbecue/picnic. Their formation is so humongous they block the warmth for a good 10 minutes while they pass over. Mnemonic for the migrating ducks primitive : the migrating ducks stick together like the best of friends, flying together as one (fifth stroke), they are not easy prey for the great eagles / vultures."	
聞	hear	Press your ear to the gates and see if you can hear what is going on inside.	14	1626	42		"To distinguish from listen, you hear someone at the door (gate)."	
援	abet	You abet the escape of migrating ducks by pointing them the way.	12	1951	53		"""Aiding and abetting:"" You are accuse of abetting a drug dealer, by smuggling drugs in migrating ducks. Of course, this means you have to stick your fingers in their mouths."	
緩	slacken	"Oh no Spiderman has some migrating ducks stuck in his web, he has to slacken it so they can get out."	15	1952	53		Spiderman is a slacken off. He lays around all day in the park watching migrating ducks...　RTK2:　カン　緩和　かんわ(mitigation).	
闘	fight	"During the saloon brawl, one guy got glued to a table and was tossed out through the saloon gates. But he really wanted to fight, so he ran back through those gates (with the table still glued to his back) only to be tossed out again. Imagine him repeatedly running in and being tossed back out."	18	1629	42		"Food fight! Look, beans are stuck to the gates like glue."	
嘱	entrust	"The commando gnats entrusted their mouths to the translators and what came out was ""All your base are belong to us!""."	15	1954	53		"If you entrust me with something, my mouth belongs to you."	
偶	accidentally	"Mr. T accidentially stepped on Jiminy Cricket (a brainy insect, with a belt sort of sash to hold his ""conscience"" badge)."	11	1955	53		"Mr. T accidentally steps on Jiminy Cricket. // Primitive: right side: Talking cricket = Jiminy Cricket, a brainy insect with a belt to whip little kids who misbehave."	
俳	haiku	I pity the fool/ Who put me in this jail cell/ I pity the fool. (Credit taijuando).	10	1633	42		I pity the fool/ Who put me in this jail/ I pity the fool.	
愚	foolish	"""Don't be foolish!"" says Jiminy Cricket as he lashes you with his belt. Follow logic, like me, not your heart."	13	1957	53		"I simply imagine Jiminy Cricket jumping all over the place, like a mad man, yelling ""yeeeeehaaaaa!"". Maybe he just fell in love? Mnemonic - ""Jiminy Cricket has a foolish heart""."	
悲	sad	"Saddness is like having your heart captured and jailed because of some sad or terrible event, etc. Here the sad heart waits for someone to come and un-lock their jail cell and set them free again."	12	1635	42		"Stuck in a jail cell with his heart crying out to see his family again, the prisoner has never felt so sad."	
巻	scroll	"At a mysterious bazaar, you happen to come across something interesting: a rolled-up scroll for only 25¢. You buy it up impulsively until you realize that the powerful spell contained within is cursed by a poisonous snake. If you try to cast this spell, the snake will pop out of nowhere and bite you! Hrmph. No wonder it was so cheap..."	9	1207	32		How to make snake maki: Take a snake. Roll it up in rice and nori (seaweed paper) like a scroll. Cut into quarters and serve on a wooden geta with ginger and wasabi.	
逆	inverted	There's a road that's been inverted- it's gone from horizontal to directly vertical! The only beast that could possibly climb it is a mountain goat of course.	9	1959	53		"This reminds me of a cartoon I saw once, perhaps it was with Donald Duck. he is startled and furious when he chases this mountain billygoat further and further up the mountain road, untill the angle is so steep that he finds himself inverted. And falls down, while the goat stands solidly placed inverted and laughs a goaty laughter as Donald plumments and makes that typical Donald shaped cartoon crater at the bottom."	
扉	front door	The only way out of a jail cell is to serve your time and walk out the front door. There are no other doors.	12	1638	42		"An old man serving a very long jail sentence painted a life-like door at the back of his jail cell, hlafway open, with the blue sky, clouds, etc, as some kind of symbol of freedom. Every time the prison officers come to take him they ask him to come to the door. The old man with a grin always answers ""Which door?"", looking at his painted door with a grin. And the prison officer always answer, sighing - ""The front door !""."	
岡	Mount	"White mount , Fuji mount , olympus mount whatever ....The choice is yours but wherever you go they sell those snowglobe souvenir : under a GLASS HOOD you can see the mount with a MOUTAIN GOAT standing on top of it .... So kitsch you just can't forget it ."	8	1961	53		"This has the same meaning as 丘, so my ""Mount"" is a hill with mountain goats on it under a glass canopy. It's obviously an effort by the locals to add some Mount atmosphere to their hill. As a primitive, it has the meaning ""sturdy"" (really), which Heisig has not used for some reason, but I will. The glass canopy must be pretty sturdy to keep the goats inside (bulletproof glass, I'm sure)."	
候	climate	The marquis has absolutely no interest in issuses of climate change. He's old and near death. [Don't forget the walking stick to symbolize his old age.].	10	1640	42		The marquis moves to a warmer climate after he gets old enough to need a walking stick to get around.	
決	decide	"""Decide!"" ""Decide?! Death by drowning in polluted water or death by guillotine. How can I decide?"" I asked."	7	1641	42		To decide if someone is a witch or not first dunk them in water. If they don't drown they are a witch and can be sent to the guillotine.	
綱	hawser	Spiderman saves Japan from floating away by tying Mt. Fuji to mainland Asia using a hawser made of web.	14	1963	53		A sturdy thread is equally obviously hawser (heavy rope). (see previous frame).	
剛	sturdy	"Mount everest is very sturdy, you can hit it all day with a saber and it wont even wobble."	10	1964	53		"Anything sturdy in Japan is associated with Mount Fuji. Perhaps this is because it's symmetry is believed to make it rather sturdy itself, unlike all those crooked mountains that are around and tend to fall apart (think rock slides, avalanches, etc.). Here we see Sturdy-brand sabers with Mount Fuji engraved on the blade."	
緯	horizontal	Spiderman buys a locket for Mary Jane because he wants to get HORIZONTAL with her.	16	1645	42		"Spiderman on a boat, marking the Earth's latitudes. He first attaches a personal locket to a small piece of thread for ballast and good luck, and shoots with his right hand. After a few minutes (and lots and lots of thread), the locket and thread have flown around the world. Spiderman catches the locket with his left hand, and ties the thread's ends together. Voilà."	
陶	pottery	"At The Pinnacle, traditional pottery is done by binding up a bunch of tin cans into whatever pot shape desired."	11	1966	53		"In order the get clay up to the Acropolis for the pottery class, clay is packed into tin cans, bound in huge loads, and lugged up there by some unfortunate soul."	
知	know	"I should know. After all, I did graduate from Dartmouth!"	8	1223	33		"[know; wisdom] [An arrow 矢 like mouth 口] If you know the answers, they will fly like darts from your mouth."	
謡	Noh chanting	"Noh chanting?!? I meant ""NO CHANTING!"" Now all you, just shut up! Not another word! Don't you know that chanting can provoke attacks from the local condor? So, no chanting, and especially no Noh chanting."	16	1968	53		Picture guy dressed in a condor mask up on stage during Noh performance chanting some words nobody understands.	
刊	publish	The newspaper pages are hung on the clotheseline to dry and then cut down with a sabre to be published.	5	1650	43		"The newspaper pages are hung on the clotheseline to dry. This gives the government a chance to censor the news: they cut up unwanted stories with a sabre. Therefore, only state-approved stories are published."	
懇	sociable	"The skunk here is Pepe LePew of Looney Tunes fame. He's a very sociable skunk, as far as skunks go, but instead of having a ""heart of gold"" he has a heart of silver (since he always finishes second in the game of love)."	17	1970	53		"The skunk here is Pepe LePew of Looney Tunes fame. He's a very sociable skunk, as far as skunks go, but instead of having a ""heart of gold"" he has a heart of silver."	
帰	homecoming	"A female warrior returns home from battle. Her husband takes away her spear to symbolize the end of fighting and gives her a broom and an apron. “Boy, this is some kind of HOMECOMING,” thinks the veteran. (Adapted from johnskb)."	10	1230	33		"Well, the boss man warrior upon his homecoming has set aside his spear. Remember the lady (#1151) (who put aside her broom and apron)? I wonder what they're doing now?"	
免	excuse	"Obviously this is the rabbit from Alice, excusing himself and rushing away on his legs, as he has a binding day schedule. This is at the same time an image, with bound=ears, day=head and legs are just legs. The image is used in rabbit (#2093)."	8	1972	53		What is the rabbit's excuse for being such a jerk? Well he was bound up for a whole day while being stepped on by peoples human legs in some make-up labratory. Yeah I think I can excuse him after knowing that.	
芋	potato	"If your potatos are growing flowers and those little hooked roots, you should either buy less or eat them faster."	6	1655	43		"If your potatoes are growing flowers, you need to store them in a more dry place, like hanging them on hooks so they don't accumulate moisture on the floor."	
晩	nightfall	At nightfall the sun excuses itself and goes to sleep.	12	1974	53		"Imagine Bugs Bunny halfway sticking out of a rabbit hole, somewhere in Japan, taking in the sun, when all of a sudden, night falls. Our ""sun-loving rabbit"" burrows his way into the earth and pops out on the other side of the planet (say somewhere in America) and there it is, the sun high and bright in the sky! Thus, whenever it is nightfall you can be sure our ""sun-loving rabbit"" is taking in the sun somewhere else accross the globe."	
沸	seethe	"Re CharleyGarrett: This liquid looks like ordinary water, but it will instantly seethe when it comes in contact with counterfeit dollar bills. The inventor must be rich (and probably has dollar signs in his eyes)."	8	1237	33		"When his daughter used a lot of water for her shower, the father could practically see the dollar signs, so he was seething with anger."	
除	exclude	"To become a member of The Pinnacle, they test you on a scale. If you weigh too much, they exclude you."	10	1658	43		You won't make it unless you exclude something. The climb to the pinacle cannot be completed if you are carrying too much. You just have to decide what you can afford to exclude.	
象	elephant	"An elephant has huge ears, like a rabbit, and a big, fat body, like a sow."	12	1976	53		"An animal with huge ears like a rabbit, and a body fat like a pig... ¡An ELEPHANT! For the ""phenomenon"" connotation you could use Dumbo, or Joseph Merrick (the ""elephant man"") ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joseph_Merrick )."	
叙	confer	"Amazed at the weight of his crotch, they conferred every honor upon him. (Image: guy with his junk on a scale getting a medal pinned to his chest/around his neck/being knighted, etc.)."	9	1660	43		"When you confer again 又, you confer too much 余!"	
馬	horse	"Turkey with the drops at the top removed and tail feathers added (this matches stroke order and there are the tail feathers already, why not have the whole bird). If you take the two drops of 隹 as wings, then horses are like turkeys, but have no wings and have more prominent tail ""feathers"". Both are actually supposed to be pictographs, though."	10	1978	54		"The top part is half a comb (see frame 1920) with an extra vertical stroke to account for a sturdier version used to comb a horse mane. As a primitive I used the theme of the Trojan Horse. Not the modern computer viruses, but the large wooden horse which led to the demise of Troy and of the Trojans. Either its size (much greater than a live horse), or the fact that it conceals things into its belly, will set it appart from the horse primitive that came in frame 568 (""noon"")."	
誇	boast	"The hunter's boast: I say, it was a ""big one"", but the snare broke and it got away. (credit to many others before)."	13	1244	33		"A dog owner boasts about how obedient, not how smart, his Saint Bernard dog is. ""Why, my dog will even walk right into a trap if I tell him to. Watch!"" With a single word, ""go!"", his dog obediently runs into a snare trap hanging from the ceiling. In a flash, the dog is netted tightly and swinging from the ceiling. Don't forget the ceiling!"	
塗	paint	If you add too much water to the paint it will drip onto the ground.	13	1663	43		A true artisan mixes his own paint from water and soils on a scale in careful proportions.	
験	verification	We just verification that there are indeed no soldiers in the belly of this trojan horse. We're just gonna stab it in the belly with this awl to check.	18	1980	54		The verification proves the horse is real by poking it with an ice pick.	
頼	trust	"We found a bundle of severed heads in your room, its difficult to trust you."	16	1665	43		RTK is a bundle of pages that we trust to teach us kanji (no ライ!)…　　　RTK2:　ライ　信頼　しんらい(trust)…　　　　　　　　Mixed Group:　(ｿｸ): 束1664　速1669　(ﾁｮｸ): 勅1667　(ｿ): 疎1668　(ｾｲ): 整1670.	
駐	parking	"Parking in the dark may be difficult...specially if you're parking a trojan horse. To lend you a tiny bit of help, take this candlestick with you, and at least you'll have some light."	15	1982	54		"In the olden days parking lots used to have reserved spaces for where the lord (of the set of houses, shops, whatever) could park his team of horses. nowadays it's pretty much the same...reserved parking in front for the big bosses' cars...."	
駆	drive	You have to be craaazzzzyy to drive a buggy led by a team of horses through a ward of Tokyo!	14	1983	54		Wolverine drives his box by having a horse drag him around. He seems to really be losing it after coming to the homeless ward...	
疎	alienate	"[True story] In Osaka the homeless (the alienated) live in large numbers around the city zoo. Picture them in winter all bundled up in rags trying to keep warm, alienated from the society, living literally worst than the animals in the zoo who at least are bundled in their natural furs and have pens to live in sheltered from the elements."	12	1668	43		This kanji is so strange that it was alienated at the kanji zoo. The bundle of joy stork bundles this kanji up and takes it to a kanji foster home.	
駅	station	"This reminds me of those infamous Mexican porn movies in which shakuhachi is performed on a horse. Here the deed is being done at a train station. As the passengers get off, so does the horse."	14	1984	54		"Anyone living in Japan knows that train stations play little melodies when the train is about to arrive. In Ye Olden Days, when horses and carriages were used for transport, the carriage driver would play a little melody on his shakuhachi to let the passengers know the carriage was arriving at the next station."	
整	organize	"Recycling in Japan, you have to make sure all your bundles are organized correctly otherwise the taskmasters won't accept them."	16	1670	43		When a bundle of taskmasters organize something chances are it won't be done correctly because they are constantly arguing.	
駄	burdensome	"The Greek warriors inside the Trojan Horse are complaining about this burdensome plump warrior who is not helping at all (say, just eating candies and watching). - ""You know you're such a burden!"". Note : be sure to keep ""plump"" distinct from the primitive meaning of ""round"" (""fat man"")."	14	1986	54		"If a passenger is too plump and heavy, its too burdensome for the horse."	
驚	wonder	"You stand in AWE at the 8th WONDER of the world, a huge TROJAN HORSE."	22	1987	54		"This is another word for surprise. 驚く＝おどろく= surprise. The Trojans stood in awe of the magnificent Trojan Horse that they thought was a gift. But imagine their surprise (wonder) when a bunch of Greeks came rushing out of it! (To further cement the connection between the primitives, if needed: It's a wonder that the Trojans managed to speak keigo 敬語 even then, saying ""わたくしたちを殺さないでください!!お願い致します!!"")."	
検	examination	You're giving a TREE an EXAMINATION. You take a wood sample from the TREE with an AWL (cmp exam (#1278)).	12	1673	43		"Don't confuse with exam (#1278), test (#354), evaluate (#1487). Think of examination as a doctor's examination. You're having problems getting wood in bed. You go in for a doctor's examination. The doctor shoves an icepick into your manhood as part of the examination."	
篤	fervent	"A fervent horse doesnt need to be whipped with a bamboo stick during a race, it will go fast by itself."	16	1988	54		"A fervent history otaku rebuild the the Trojan Horse. But since he was Japanese, he used bamboo instead of normal wood."	
重	heavy	The first computer in the world was as heavy as thousand computers are now.	9	1675	43		"To me it looks like a car with two extra wheels, like a truck. As it is a very heavy vehicle I suggest an image of a huge mining truck, like the yellow Liebherr T282B. Remember that the first ""wheel"" is a bit bent. http://www.primidi.com/2004/06/21.html."	
虎	tiger	"Magic wand + first two strokes of pelt (皮) + diced + human legs. A wizard who turns people he doesn't like into newts with his magic wand goes for variety - he has always wanted a tiger pelt - but things go awry when the tiger promptly dices and eats him, leaving only a pair of legs. (a fitting end for a wicked wizard)."	8	1990	54		"Tigger, the tiger, (from Pooh stories) is happy to have found a magic wand. Using it he can bounce up to a the top of a cliff, seven times as high as some human legs could bounce. Tigger thinks ""Its great to be a tiger!"	
勲	meritorious deed	"A meritorious deed? Like moving a damsel in distress out of a fire, maybe."	15	1677	43		Prometheus did a meritous deed for humanity by MOVING FIRE from the gods to us humans.	
働	work	Mr. T's real line of work is for a moving company.	13	1678	43		"Mr T, move. Mr Ts new exercise video called ""Work it suckaz"". Here is shouting ""move it work it move work it!""."	
膚	skin	"Ending up in a tiger's stomach is not good for your skin, as it's full of stomach acids."	15	1992	54		TIGGER only has visible SKIN on his STOMACH. The rest of his body is covered in orange fur.	
師	expert	"A maestro in a large auditorium with high ceilings is conducting his orchestra of expert musicians at a fever-pitch, sweat pouring out of him. When the piece is over he reaches for his towel to wipe his brow."	10	1269	34		"Maestro is such as expert, he can conduct even with a towel hanging from the ceiling in front of him."	
帥	commander	The COMMANDER is a military MAESTRO who never throws in the TOWEL.	9	1270	34		"The greatest of them all; Commander James Bond, 007. Here he is the maestro of undressing women, removing the towel from some bond girl. Of course the towel symbolises her last vestige of resistance."	
虞	uneasiness	The dentist couldn't help but feel uneasiness as he used his hand crank mouth tool on the tiger in his chair.	13	1995	54		"My dear friend, a Bengali merchant, gave me a tiger as a birthday present. I felt uneasiness, knowing that I'll have to reject it. Or was it horror?"	
痴	stupid	Of course caveman is stupid. He doesn't know anything. He's a caveman!	13	1683	44		"This kanji shows stupidity as a ""knowledge-sickness"". Everybody can be stupid at times, and it usually happens because of a lack of experience. Hence the stupidity is a ""knowledge sickness""."	
劇	drama	A great Indian drama acted out every year is how a poor Bengali boy fended off the tigers from his pigs using only a sabre.	15	1997	54		"If you thought ""The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe"" was full of drama then you'll love ""The Tiger the Sow and the Sword""."	
較	contrast	"The people I had invited to the party were mingling quite well with one another, until they all suddenly started talking about the cars they own. Pretty soon the crowd divided itself into distinct, contrasting crowds: rich snobs with fancy cars, soccer moms with minivans, and hippies with bicycles."	13	1277	34		"Our world of today, cars mingling on busy streets, is in stark contrast to the one of yesteryear, where it was people who would mingle on the streets."	
鹿	deer	Bambi wanders into a cave and sees a side order of salad and 2 spoons...but what's the main course?	11	1999	54		"Santa's reindeer, Rudolf, opens a nightclub in a cave. It's popular with all the deer and reindeer in the world. The cave speciality is a salad w/ dressing on the side. There is no other deer club that can compare. How many other deer nightclubs are there?"	
疲	tired	I picture an exhausted sick caveman snuggling up in a comfy pelt blanket.	10	1688	44		Your body feels tired when you have a sickness. All you want to do is wrap yourself up in a nice warm pelt and get better.	
痛	pain	The CAVEMAN felt such a pain after his POGO STICK got stuck in his butt.	12	1690	44		When I was feeling sick my mum said I shouldn't go out to play on my pogo stick until I felt better. Well I wasn't strong enough to stay up on it and so fell over and have the pain to prove my mum right.	
跳	hop	"A girl with a wooden leg always wanted to play hopscotch with the other girls, but every time she tried to hop she'd lose her balance and injure another girl. That's why the other girls make fun of her and see her presence as a portent to injury."	13	1284	34		A turtle with a wooden leg needs to hop to get around.	
熊	bear	"Most don't know it, but bears have the ability to walk on fire. They're invincible creatures!"	14	2003	54		"Note : I don't know why James Heisig put ""bear"" ahead of ""ability"" (next frame), but I sugget to skip this, learn the next kanji (""ability"") then go back here and use ability as a primitive."	
匠	artisan	Most people don't know that one of the most revered artisans in Japan preserves the ancient art of cutting cardboard boxes with an ax.	6	1693	44		"We here have the axe-man who's an artisan at making sculptures with his axe... The only thing is, he never shows anyone, keeping all his sculptures inside a box down in the basement. He doesn't want any attention."	
能	ability	"The amputee has no hands but only stumps of flesh beneath his elbows. To give him the ability to eat he has two spoons implanted in his arm stumps, one in each side."	10	2004	54		"Kid from the Oracle's place in the Matrix (whose head is shining like the moon) is holding a a spoon and making it bend using his special ability. When Neo asks to learn this ability the child replies, "" Remember the truth Neo, there is no spoon."" Neo Proceeds to the kitchen pondering these words of wisdom. The Child smiles mischeviously and pulls a second spoon hidden up his sleeve in the crook of his elbow. ""That's right Neo,"" the child laughs, ""there is no spoon...there are two spoons!""."	
態	attitude	"This guy has an attitude problem – lots of ability, but his heart's not in it."	14	2005	54		"Having a good attitude means believing in your heart that you have the ability to do anything - like memorizing more than 2000 kanji, for example."	
寅	sign of the tiger	"If you draw the sign of the tiger on the ceiling of your house, you will sprout tiger's legs (animal legs) and be able to run and pounce like the big cats yourself."	11	2006	55		The sign of the tiger is that he's eaten all of the yellow (#1750) salad in the house.	
枢	hinge	The hinge on Wolverine's cardboard box is made of wood because he doesn't have enough budget to buy metal hinges.	8	1697	44		You notice a hinge on a tree and realize there's a secret door. You open it up to find an Xbox!!!	
欧	Europe	"""Europe? Yawn... I've been to every ward(country/area),"" says Wolverine interviewed from his cardboard box."	8	1699	44		[Europe] X-Box was first released in America and Japan (the biggest videogame markets). Europe had an X-Box lack for a while...	
辱	embarrass	"During the shooting of one of his first movies in China, Bruce Lee fell through the cheaply built movie set, and into a barrel of glue. As you can imagine, to put Bruce Lee in that position must have caused great embarass to the chinese producer. Note the hints in the story for the position of the primitives."	10	2009	55		Bruce Lee is embarrassed when he does a high kick and splits his pants. He has to glue them back together.	
随	follow	[Image: Follow the 'Yellow-Brick Road' to success] The pinnacle signifies your personal goal and destination. What you're seeking to possess lies at the end of the yellow-brick road. You must follow the road to get what you want.	12	1298	35		"I fled to The Pinnacle for safety, but the demon followed me right up the road!"	
迎	welcome	Stamp-collectors sit and wait on the road to welcome new mail arrivals.	7	1702	44		Welcome home daddy! Is that box for me? You were on the road a long time! I collected all the stamps from the letters you wrote me　:-) ...　　RTK2:　ゲイ　歓迎　かんげい(welcome).	
澄	lucidity	"Scuba divers know that when you ascend in the water, your lucidity increases (For non-divers, the deeper you go, the more you become mentally impaired by nitrogen narcosis, every 50 feet is like drinking one martini). Scuba divers also know that as you ascend in the water, the lucidity of the water improves, too."	15	1704	44		"A few drops of acid/peyote and the Indians obtain lucidity on their vision quest, as if they were floating in the lucid sky."	
附	affixed	A sign was AFFIXED on the PINNACLE of the Acropolis so that tourists would ADHERE to the rules.	8	1303	35		The Pinnacle is firmly affixed to the top of the mount with bubble gum. (adhere (#1000)).	
農	agriculture	"The most unlikely persons in the world to take up agriculture must be Bender and Bruce Lee. An awkwared moment as they stare on the various farming utensils, hoe, plow. Both with straw hats on and blue overalls, and drawn in Groenigs irrevent style."	13	2014	55		"Bruce Lee is tough. But so is agricultural work. If Bruce took it up, even he would hurt his back from all the bending."	
僚	colleague	"Some businesses allow pets in the office. Here, my colleague is Mr T and he set up a little pup tent for his minidog, then turns around and completes his TPS reports."	14	1707	44		"Mr. T began working in a japanese compagny. As he sees that his colleague accept to do some extra work during the week-end and even sleep at the office, he says to them: ""I pity da fool who work during week-end! You might as well install a pup tent in the office and forget about your home""."	
送	send off	"After worshipping the golden calf, God sent the Jews on a long road through the wilderness."	9	2016	55		"The problem with the ""gold calf"" primitive is that the first vertical stroke of ""heavenly"" is shorter than the second stroke. But as we know, ""heavenly"" clearly has the FIRST stroke longer, not the second. The primitives we really have here are ""animal horns (first 3 strokes)"" and ""big/dog (last 3 strokes)."" What are the BIGGEST ANIMAL HORNS that you can think of? For me its a MASTODON. STORY: In caveman times, you SENT OFF packages with the MASTODON express."	
陛	highness	Your highness is the pinnacle of finesse compared to all of us commoners who are but like dirt on the ground.	10	1310	35		"His Highness, the main man at the Pinnacle, often compares those who live outside the city's walls to dirt."	
咲	blossom	Evil blossoms from the mouths of those who worship the golden calf. (Playing it safe and avoiding the image of a flower completely).	9	2018	55		Blossom is an elegant euphemism for the precise part of the golden maiko that commands such a price in gold when she is 'deflowered'. (Along the lines of 'jade pillar' and 'lotus flower' in certain Asian texts.) [See my 2016-2018 for this sad tale.].	
影	shadow	The sun over the capital cast a shadow with the same shape.	15	1712	45		Mystique the shape-shifter blends into the scenery by transforming into a form that looks like little more than an animated shadow.	
醜	ugly	The ugly oni can't get a date so he drinks sake by himself at the bar.	17	2020	55		Drinking too much whisky can make you as ugly as an oni.	
空	empty	The craft of creating a black hole is in creating an emptiness which can attract things.	8	1317	35		"Hole-craft is the way of making empty spaces, like the sky."	
魔	witch	The witch sold me some hemp that made me see ghosts don't do drugs.	21	2022	55		"This modern version of the witch lives in some hippie community. She smokes a lot of hemp, and spends the day talking to ghosts, which not surprisingly appears only to her."	
顔	face	"The lad jumps off the cliff, breaks his head, and smashes his face."	18	1717	45		"When I was a lad, a pretty face was all it took for someone to get in my head, and I'd fill pages of lovelorn letters to them."	
須	ought	"Why, I OUGHT to RESHAPE your HEAD..."	12	1718	45		"Since this Kanji is exceptional, the shape ought to be on the left side. Got that into your head?"	
塊	clod	"Without any weapons, our only defense was to throw clods of dirt at the advancing zombie horde."	13	2024	55		"Easy: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Golem (or if you prefer, http://schwicky.net/xfiles/episodes/4/kaddish/)."	
参	visit	"Whenever the postman has to pay a visit to this place, he brings an elbow-shaped thingy that he throws to the St. Bernard."	8	1720	45		"I'm going to visit my grandpa in the hospital. He broke his elbow, and it became really big and contorted into a weird shape. I hope he will be all right!"	
嚇	upbraid	"To upbraid someone, you criticize them in a menacing way. In other words, you jaw at them with your MOUTH until both sides of their face turn RED (hence the double-red)."	17	2026	56		"Tip: Heisig later names 赫 ""red + red"" as incandescent (#2908). Story: ""So the boss upbraided you, huh?"". ""Yep, his mouth was incandescent."	
修	discipline	Mr. T is a harsh taskmaster who will discipline you (beat you into shape) with his walking stick.	10	1722	45		"You may not have known it, but Mr. T is into discispline. Not just self discipline, in order to get into shape, but what he really likes is when the Task master spanks him with her walking stick. Don't tell Mr. T I told you. I pity da fool, and da fool would be me!!!"	
珍	rare	"The king has a really rare umbrella, it can change shape."	9	1723	45		"Tip: umbrella + shape : This combination of primitives appears four times in Heisig, so it may be worthwhile giving it a name. I suggest ""parasol"" (because it is the same shape as an umbrella). REF: rare (FRAME 1723) , check-up (#1724), measles (#2574), fallible (#2720)."	
文	sentence	"A twist on greenapple: The teacher puts a tophat on all pupils with gramatically correct sentences, while the rest are left with a big red X on their homework."	4	1725	45		The teacher in the tophat puts an X on all the grammatically incorrect sentences.	
錬	tempering	"Tempering should be done with the metal facing east. (If not, the metal may pick up the earth's magnetic field)."	16	2030	56		"In the East, especially Japan ...there are masters of tempering metal to great strength....on the Spring of Trivia show in Japan I saw how a Japanese sword ...actually split flying bullets...all because of special Eastern tempering techniques."	
遵	abide by	You must abide by the revered rules of the road! No devil's brew and stay glued to your lane in the road!	15	2031	56		Even the most revered person must still abide by the rules of the road -- no exceptions are granted to anyone.	
屯	barracks	The game characters from Worms sleep in their barracks at night.	4	2033	56		Earthworm jim sleeps in a barracks because he is a soldier... apparently.	
且	moreover	"Moreover is a literary term to shelve what you had just been talking about, to come back to it later."	5	2034	56		"Same as darg_sama. Play on words. I imagine visiting someone who has an impressive collection of medals and trophies (chess champion, for example). After spending an hour showing you all the trophies in the glass shelf, you think ""Whew! It's over."" ... but the person says ""... and wait, there's ""moreover"" !"", pointing at more trophies lined atop the glass shelf."	
斎	purification	A scottish priest in a tartan kilt has put his altar between a couple of fence posts and is now playing the bagpipes in a very Scottish purification rite.	11	1732	45		"Kind of vulgar, but here the SCOTSMAN got tired of adjusting himself so decided try PURIFICATION. Sadly, he did it by straddling the ALTAR with his skinny LEGS."	
粛	solemn	"Even though it's a maddening task, the monks stay solemn as they rake rice between the fenceposts."	11	1733	45		Note: This is not sieve as it has a full rice and not rice grains and the hook is missing from rake. Also the given stroke order is incorrect (fenceposts should come last).	
隷	slave	The samurai sits on the altar and watches the slave rake rice all day.	16	2036	56		The samurai from goodwill (#1097) maintains his good mood on his wedding day. He tells his slave that he can keep all rice (used for confetti) that he rakes up after the ceremony. Generous Man!!	
楽	music	Zelda: Ocarina of Time - The white sparkly thing is Navi. She's hovering/dancing around a tree to the legendary Lost Woods music.	13	1735	45		"There we were at the concert...her voice was like a dove...her dress sparkled...then suddenly, a tree fell on her....."	
丹	cinnabar	"How about a rusty cinnabar colored dilapidated boat, found abandoned somewhere. The smoke-stack and the keel have fallen off..."	4	2038	56		Rusty old boat with the bottom and top missing.	
潟	lagoon	"Right part: mortar bound up over oven fire, comprising boiling cauldron. Lagoon is a shallow pond, thus easily warmed by sun, large-scale equivalent of a boiling cauldron."	15	2039	56		I stapled both sides of some tail feathers to a waterfall towering over the lagoon to give it a more tropical feel…　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　On list of rare or no official Chinese reading.	
渋	astringent	"I think that Heisig meant this as the ""slightly bitter but fresh"" meaning that it can have to describe foods like lemons (しぶい). So imagine a guy trying a cocktail (water), feeling like he's been kicked in the face (footprint) and sparks are flying from his tongue. 'How did it taste?'. 'Hmm, yes, slightly bitter, but fresh""."	11	1738	45		If you eat something astringent water will stop the sparkly sensation in your mouth.	
結	tie	"Ok, here, you have to think of the phrase ""TIE the knot"" , which means a wedding (this kanji is used in the marriage compound 結婚 けっこん ). Now, at US weddings, it ends with the couple driving away with cans being dragged behind the car. So here, think of SPIDERMAN, who will TIE the knot with Mary Jane. At his wedding, Spider THREAD attached (or TIED) to SPRAYCANS are being drug behind the limo as they drive off."	12	1351	36		Spiderman and a fan have a competition to see who can tie up the most enemies fastest. Spidey's using his webs and the fan is using an aerosol can of silly string. So far they are tied.	
赤	red	"He was stabbed with a dagger, and little drops of red blood dropped onto the ground."	7	1743	45		"There was red all over the soil after Little Red Riding Hood plunged a dagger into the wolf. Those two dots we see are wolfies animal legs we see, by the way (a la smithsonian)."	
赦	pardon	"The student blushed until his face was red, so the schoolmaster decided to pardon him."	11	1744	45		There aren't many pardons given by the Red taskmasters in China. 80% of the world's death penalties are performed there...　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　シャ　赦免　しゃめん(pardon).	
変	unusual	It's quite unusual and abnormal to see an apple with walking legs running away from the person who wants to eat it!	9	1745	45		"Imagine an apple on walking legs on stage singing ""It's not unusual to be loved by anyone"" (Tom Jones). Keyword can be confused with uncommon (#1797)."	
跡	tracks	Pirate pokes the tip of his wooden leg into an apple to disguise his tracks.	13	1746	45		"To hide his distinctive wood-leg tracks, this pirate is throwing apples after his tracks in order for animals to come and confuse his tracks."	
湾	gulf	"In his most daring feat, William tell used his bow to shoot an apple off the head of his son across the water of the gulf."	12	1749	45		"An army of archers must cross a gulf of water. Fortunately there are millions of apple trees growing in the cliffs above the gulf. The archers use their bows to shoot down apple after apple, which all fall into the water and slowly fill up the the gulf until the archer soliders can cross on foot."	
黄	yellow	The salad did not look very appetizing... The sprouts were yellow and there were animal legs sticking out of it.	11	1750	45		I order a salad with sprouts. I'm asked if I'd like to add chicken. Yes please. My salad then arrives . . . . topped with these horribly gnarled yellow things. Chicken feet! (animal legs) ugh.	
把	grasp	"Japanese censorship laws require pornos to use a mosaic screen, so you can't see what the porno chick is grasping with her fingers (but you can assume, neetch)."	7	1752	45		Your fingers grasp the Rubic's cube... if only your brain could too.	
紺	navy blue	"Thanks raulir - As many Japanese perverts know, navy blue threads conceal school girl sweetness underneath."	11	1758	46		"Much like Violet Beauregarde from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Spiderman failed to heed Willy Wonka's warnings, and upon chewing on the 3 course meal chewing gum turned a very navy shade of navy blue."	
謀	conspire	"I imagine a clique of catty girls conspiring against a another girl...they are exchanging lots of words, chatting about how so-and-so girl is now up to such-and-such (gasp!), and how they will spread the word about it."	16	1760	46		"You might hear the words of someone conspiring... ""If you do so-and-so...""."	
媒	mediator	"In a divorce, the woman needs a mediator because she won't talk to that so-and-so. Imagine the woman on the ground and the so-and-so up in the tree, and the poor mediator climbing up and down, trying to mediate their fight."	12	1761	46		"In a divorce, the woman needs a mediator because she won't talk to that so-and-so."	
旗	national flag	"The United Republic of Chess' national flag is actually a banner with a rook, that way they can hang it at every tournament."	14	1764	46		"The national flag of Croatia. It's a banner with the Croatian coat of arms, commonly referred to as the Chessboard (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coat_of_arms_of_Croatia)."	
勘	intuition	Intuition is a tremendously powerful resource of the mind.	11	1769	46		"Using Zareon's story for the previous frame ""tremendously""... The two chessplayers who are eachother's equals are so good at chess that they don't have to even move a muscle. Their brain power does it for them. Furthermore, they don't even have to think, really. Their intuition takes control. This is: extreme chess."	
遺	bequeath	"Bilbo bequeathes the ""PRECIOUS"" to Frodo, who will carry it on the long ROAD to Mordor."	15	1772	46		"""Bequeath"" is an odd old word, isn't it? Basically, it just deals with how I want my precious possessions dealt out, after I die, later down the road. ""Being of sound, but antiquated, mind, I bequeath this to you!""."	
無	nothingness	"When I enter the wooden tub heated by flames in the onsen, I can let all my worries slip away and be submerged into nothingness."	12	1775	46		In a hot tub you can relax and have your stress vanish into nothingness.	
組	association	The leader of the Spiderman association has tons of Spiderman figurines lined up on his shelf.	11	1776	47		Watch this: http://i146.photobucket.com/albums/r249/sith_lord10/updated%20showroom%20july/s29.jpg The leader of the Spiderman association has tons of Spiderman figurines lined up on his shelf.(Zactacular).	
祖	ancestor	"The ancestor worship is so common in Daoist and buddhist countries that you can buy tiny altars to put on the shelves, one for each deceased family member."	9	1779	47		The urns of ancestors are kept on shelves next to the altar.	
助	help	HELP! Someone's pinned under this bookshelf and it's gonna take a lot of muscle to lift it off!	7	1782	47		Can you help me move this shelf? I don't have the muscle to do it alone.	
畳	tatami mat	The king is peacefully sleeping on his new tatami mat when all of a sudden a shelf falls over and kills him. You can see his crown poking out and the brains splatter out the top of his head from all the pressure.	12	1784	47		"Making tatami mats from rice field waste was Japan's crowning achievement, but for some reason other countries just shelved the idea."	
湿	damp	You first wash you clothes with water and wring them until they are just damp before hanging them in a row under the sun to dry. If you don't wring them damp first they will take days to dry!	12	1788	47		"If your things are damp, lay them up in a row under the sun and let the water evaporate. (thx Raichu)...　RTK2:　シツ　湿気　しっけ(humidity)."	
撲	slap	After a row husbands take their wives upsides down over the knee and slap them with their fingers on the bottom (if that doesn't get me banned…).	15	1793	47		"Here we have badly behaving HUSBANDs, whose wives have had them hung UPSIDE DOWN IN A ROW. Each wife approaches her HUSBAND, berates him, gives him a sharp SLAP in the face and, Three-Stooges style, pokes him in the eyes with her FINGERS."	
共	together	"The character for deluge (#1799) gave me the idea to use together as a primitive for Noah's Ark. Noah kept plenty of salad on board to entice the animals with their animal legs to scurry on board together, two by two."	6	1795	47		"The conjoined twins, who are always together, have trouble eating together because one is a vegetarian, eating salad and the other is a avid meat eater, eating chicken legs.[Thanks fuaburisu!]."	
翼	wing	The thing about feathers is that they usually cover the entire bird. A creature with feathers only on its wings would be very uncommon.	17	1798	47		"WINGS without any FEATHERS would be an UNCOMMON site. Well, unless you like to eat chicken WINGS alot."	
洪	deluge	Water plus Noah's Ark equals deluge.	9	1799	47		Lots of water coming together is called a deluge.	
選	elect	"You're driving on the road and you see two snakes together. You can't avoid both, so you have to elect which one gets run over."	15	1804	47		There were so many snakes on the road to Noah's ark so they had to elect which two would represent the snake species.	
囲	surround	The village surrounded the well with a wall so kids wouldn't fall in.	7	1807	48		You get good surround sound when your pent-up in well.	
悪	bad	"Because Asian people started to eat Western food, their hearts became bad and they started having heart attacks."	11	1810	48		"Asian hearts are bad and evil. They invented so much martial arts: karate, judo, kungfu, muay thai, silat, etc... just to hurt each other. They torture their own people (China, North Korea). They torture other people (Japan in China and Korea). And they are able to hide all this behind their nice facade of kindness. Bad, bad Asians. (did i shatter some people's ideas on Asia? my bad)."	
円	circle	The shape of a Yen coin.	4	1811	48		"A poor old man is almost killing himself trying to lift a huge glass hood with his cane (using it as a lever), to get to just one yen coin. Note : the kanji refers to a circular, round object, but also to the Japanese currency (pronounced ""en"")."	
触	contact	"For insects to get in contact with each other, they need to place their antennae at just the right angle."	13	1813	48		"Wow, he threw that BOOMERANG with such skill, it made CONTACT with that INSECT in mid flight."	
講	lecture	"I have a funnel attached to my laptop that takes my prof's lecture and puts the words into a text file. The bigger the funnel, the more accurate the conversion, so picture a bunch of laptops with large, unwieldy funnels attached to the USB port."	17	1816	48		"Image: a professor walking around with a funnel and simply pouring his words into each students head instead of a lecture. (Primitive: FUNNEL, who got the celery stuck in the funnel again?! You know it's not supposed to be used for that!)."	
購	subscription	"Subscription is like a money funnel, because the receiving end is small (just one company) and the other end is wide (the whole country)."	17	1817	48		My subscription to Money magazine came with a free coin funnel.	
構	posture	"Trees with good posture look like funnels. For example, http://static.flickr.com/53/118084202_8896e54a14_m.jpg."	14	1818	48		A farm girl uses a wooden funnel as a corset to improve her posture.	
溝	gutter	A gutter funnels water.	13	1819	48		A gutter takes the water that falls as rain and funnels it off to where it can be dealt with appropriately.	
輪	wheel	Someone stole all the wheels off the ladies' cars at the scrapbook convention.	15	1822	48		"During a talk at the academic conference, speaker shows an introductory slide depicting the structure of car, and then moves on to the more narrow topic of wheels."	
偏	partial	Mr. T is very partial to hentai comic books. I know because he dropped a pile of them when I accidentally bumped into him at the door to kinokuniya!	11	1823	48		"Mr. T is partial to konbini hentai. He reads them for hours every day after work at his local konbini. (Primitive: KONBINI HENTAI, all the magazines(scrapbooks) by every konbini door in Japan)."	
冊	tome	Pictograph. I think of that Harry Potter spell book that had to be bound shut coz it wanted to eat you.	5	1826	48		"冊 さつ 1: counter for books A heavy scrapbook so full that flowers are sticking out. Only if a scrapbook is that full, it can be called a heavy book."	
紙	paper	Spiderman doesn't have a single paper with his family name on it (because he doesn't want to reveal his identity).	10	1829	49		"I imagine a ridiculously expensive, and rather pointless, Japanese type of paper for writing letters, with one's family name woven in fine thread somewhere in a corner."	
抵	resist	Most japanese find it impossible to resist pushy businessmen in Japan when they push their damned business cards into your fingers.	8	1832	49		"Japan business etiquette tip: When someone hands you a business card, resist the impulse to fiddle around with it with your fingers, and by all means resist the urge to use the card to pick gunk from under your fingernails. Just examine it carefully, ask politely about the (few by now) kanji that you don't know, and put it away carefully in a location that shows your counterparts how important they are to you."	
眠	sleep	"In an Orwellian sense, the eye watching the people never sleeps."	10	1835	49		The little boy from The Sixth Sense couldn't sleep because before his very eyes he saw a dead crowd of people everywhere.	
蒲	bullrush	Bulrush was the flower that you could see near almost all bays in japan before the japanese started putting concrete everywhere. Just check how many percent of Japan's coastline that is concretised... you'll be surprised.	13	1838	49		The bulrush is a flower that grows around bays. http://www.meltonrossnewbarnetby.co.uk/images/bulrush.jpg.	
郊	outskirts	"The city walls mark the outskirts of the inner city, where it begins to mingle with the suburbs."	9	1844	49		"The country folk and and the city folk mingle at the outskirts of town, just past the city walls."	
部	section	"Within the city walls, this section of town was so noisy that we had to muzzle them up."	11	1845	49		The section within the city walls where dogs must be muzzled by law... RTK2:　へ　部屋　へや(room)...　　　　ブ　全部　ぜんぶ(all).	
郵	mail	The drooping citywalls was generating a lot of angry mail for the city officials.	11	1847	49		The city walls droop down in one spot so that the mailtman can throw the mail over.	
邦	home country	"He reminisced about his home country: ""Ah, back in my home country, the bushes grew so high that they covered the city walls!""."	7	1848	49		"In -my- home country, we'd like to put up walls to keep Bush -OUT-, thank you very much."	
盾	shield	This is a magic shield with ten eyes which have the power to drag the victim towards it.	9	1853	50		"From Wikipedia: ""If a Spartan hoplite were to return to Sparta alive and without his shield, it was assumed that he threw his shield at the enemy in an effort to flee; an act punishable by death or banishment."" Picture the enemy of a Spartan soldier poking his eyes out with a sewing needle and trying to steal his shield. However, the Spartan desperately clutches on, and is dragged around for a while, preferring to die than to lose his shield."	
循	sequential	"This is mostly used in the word 循環, ""circulation"" (of buses through their routes, of blood, etc). So I think of a column of little Roman soldiers with their shields marching sequentially through the veins of a person, as an anthropomorphization of the immune system."	12	1854	50		"A column of shielded soldiers advancing sequentially to avoid revealing the size of their army (Think ""Sandpeople always ride single file to hide their numbers"" from Star Wars)."	
脈	vein	The vein is the part of the body most lusted after by the flesh hungry zombies (drag & rag - see revenantkioku frame 1855).	10	1856	50		"To get blood drawn from a vein you present the part of the body to the nurse, and they drag an alcohol swab (rag) across the vein."	
衆	masses	"Masses of zombies, splattered with blood. (any zombie movie)."	12	1857	50		"When the masses are hurt, say in a natural disaster like an earthquake, they can be seen everywhere dragging their bloody rags."	
飼	domesticate	"After a pride of hungry lions ate the director, the producer decided to tone down his documentary and film domesticated cats instead."	13	1866	50		"When you DOMESTICATE a animal, you are the DIRECTOR of it's life and what it EATS."	
嗣	heir	The director's mouth dropped open as he flipped through the scrapbook of properties he was about to become heir to.	13	1867	50		"Careful with inherit (#1370). The egoistic director leaves instructions about what shall be handed down to his heir upon the director's death. First, the director's mouth should be surgically removed and preserved, to be handed down to his heir. Second, a scrapbook of the director's proudest scenes should also be handed down. The mouth reminds the heir that the director must be a loudmouth; the scrapbook reminds the heir of how to be a good director."	
船	ship	A boy floats his toy boat in a gully and imagines it as an immense ship.	11	1874	50		"Aargh, hard to keep this separate from boat. How about this: the phrase ""shape up or ship out!"" This phrase originally meant that a soldier had better get his act together, or else face being shipped off into a combat zone. Here we see a poor WW-I soldier who has been shipped off to a combat zone. He's riding in the boat overseas to fight in the trenches (gulley)."	
瓜	melon	"何これ???? ok, sorry to be crude... if you claw at a girls melons, she is gonna give you the elbow."	6	1877	50		"Vegetarian vultures are fighting for a melon, each trying to elbow its way to it with claws."	
弧	arc	"When you use a bow to shoot a melon, the arc varies depending on how far away you are."	9	1878	50		"Joan of Arc (""arc"" also means ""bow"" in french) is practicing with a bow, shooting at melons in a distant field."	
繭	cocoon	"This is a simple two-column manga showing the metamorphosis of a caterpillar into a cocoon. First, the caterpillar gets under a large flower (bees tend to hang around flowers, which scare away other predators). Then, in the first frame, we see the caterpillar (insect). Then, a bar separating this frame from the next frame (remember that Japanese manga run the other way!), in which we see the insect covered with thread, making a beautiful cocoon."	18	1880	51		"The magic flower is the reason why Spider-Man ended up miniaturized and confined inside a hood-like cocoon together with an insect. Now, only a walking stick separates them both."	
益	benefit	The benefit of having sharp horns and fast legs is that an animal can get to the food dish first.	10	1881	51		The benefit of being an animal with horns and fast legs is in keeping it from becoming a dish for the other animals! (shaydwyrm).	
敷	spread	Arrowheads are spread all over the field. The taskmaster profiteerer forces you to find them all using a compass.	15	1883	51		"Instead of being glued to one specialty (#46) 専, I decided to spread my attention in many directions 方, and be a taskmaster at none."	
来	come	"You horny bastard, don't come, at least not yet!"	7	1884	51		"Here I see, of all things, Bambi. His animal horns have not yet come out. (As we can see in the kanji, the animal horns are not at the top, not ""poking through"". ) Remember: Bambi will soon come to have a great set of animal horns but they have not yet come out."	
績	exploits	Spidey's exploits are world famous but still The Daily Bugle's pages blame him for every problem out there.	17	1542	40		[Geek alert] A lot of modern software is full of exploits which can be abused by hackers. I blame multi-threading.	
漬	pickling	"When pickling you MUST use distilled water! When it doesn't come out right, generally it is the water that is to blame."	14	1545	40		Bad water is to blame for the process of pickling.	
表	surface	"When I was GROWING UP, the SURFACE of my SCARF was always covered with snot from blowing my nose on it."	8	1546	40		"As girls grow up, something slowly surfaces from under their scarf."	
喫	consume	"This means eat/drink/smoke. Maybe you make a pledge to stop gutsing/binging/puffing, but your own mouth is tempting you to put something in it."	12	1550	40		I make my mouth pledge to consume less.	
憲	constitution	"The constitution is important. At least my parents thought so. In the house where I grew up, it was framed on the wall. Under the watchful (sideways) eye of my mother, we had to study it until we knew it by heart."	16	1554	40		The house of US Congress needs to grow up! Their twisted eyes have lost the heart of the constitution.	
性	sex	Sex is the only state of mind for many men through their whole life.	8	1558	40		When you're in the state of mind for creating new lives.	
牲	animal sacrifice	Animal sacrifice = taking the life of a cow.	9	1559	40		"In the 21st century, animal sacrifice is no longer really necessary. We can take a single cell from a cow, with no harm to the cow. We create a viable cell line from this single cell, and feed the resulting biomatter into a furnace at the exact rate necessary to appease the gods."	
縫	sew	"Good thing I brought some thread, cause I need to sew my pants that I tore up walking through the bushes (see summit (#1562)) before we hit the road to go back down the mountain."	16	1563	40		"Spiderman while walking through bushes chasing a villain, rips his suit and stops on the road to sew it up."	
拝	worship	I put my fingers together in worship of the bush that hangs from the ceiling -- that wonderful mistletoe which has gotten me kissed by many a girl.	8	1564	40		"Because I worship her, I only finger ONE BUSH, her's, and no others!"	
実	reality	"Bonsais are grown in a house, away from the harsh reality of the real world where they wouldn't survive."	8	1572	40		"On this rather boring 'big brother' type reality show, they have locked up bonsai inside a house and everyone is watching them on TV 24x7. The viewers have to vote on which bonsai shall remain in the house and which one has to leave."	
奉	dedicate	"To join the temple, you have to dedicate yourself to raising bonsai for enlightenment, and cornstalks for sustenance."	8	1573	40		"A Japanese farmer who was growing corn tried to dedicate himself to the god of corn (in the hope it would bring better harvests). He had a little room with prayer beads, incense, etc. One day he brought an offerand that he thought would please the god of corn : a bonsai - corn (a corn plant turned into a bonsai). The god was infuriated and yelled at him ""HOW DARE YOU TORTURE MY CORN IN SUCH WAYS!"". The End."	
謹	discreet	"Muttering words of gratitude for a wonderful meal, I discreetly slipped my cabbage under the table for the dog."	17	1576	40		"Cabbage primitive: When a cabbage is growing up, you must put it in your mouth before it flowers, because that's when it becomes bitter. Seriously, it's called 'bolting' or something. When you're discreet, you try to make your words like a cabbage: well-layered, but in an unassuming way."	
勤	diligence	It takes great DILIGENCE for a cabbage patch dolly to build up her muscles and win the Miss Universe contest!	12	1577	40		Growing cabbages takes muscle and diligence.	
華	splendor	"The Queen of England taking a walk round a village: 'Excuse me, I couldn't help noticing the splendour of the flowers in your garden. Simply splendid. Ten out of ten.' The villager gruffly replies: 'No it 'aint. It's all muck. An' I'm gonna cut it all down and sell it to the farmer for silage.'."	10	1581	40		Hint: Splendor in the Grass. Compare with 草. This is just a more splendid version of that kanji.	
宅	home	"This kanji is, of course, pronounced ""taku"", and it seems the owner of this home is a little bit otaku himself. He has hung up locks of hair suruptitiously obtained from various females all over his house. A veritable hair fetishist, and certainly someone whose home you wouldn't want to visit."	6	1916	52		"""Home is where the hair is""."	
剰	surplus	"If you go for a ride and find a saber beside you, perhaps you got into an Army surplus jeep."	11	1586	40		"Recall the wheat sabers we made a profit (#906) off. We made too many and now there's surplus, for sale on this hay ride."	
琴	harp	Two kings were fighting over a beautiful koto (harp). So they had a clock built into it that would measure how long each one played it. That way they could be sure none played it more than othe other.	12	1591	41		"Jesus is coming soon. Prepare to meet the king of kings now. Practice your harp playing skills all future angels!...　　　　　　　　　　　　　RTK2:　キン　琴線　きんせん(""heart strings"")."	
預	deposit	Depositing money into your savings account is something you do beforehand if you use your head. If you're in Japan your passbook says 預金機（よきんき）when you make a deposit.	13	1595	41		"You bang your head on the ATM, wishing you'd deposited some money beforehand."	
謙	self-effacing	When you are self-effacing you use words to concurrently bring yourself down and make yourself look better.	17	1600	41		"Though the man's words were self-effacing, his actions concurrently made it clear that his modesty was false."	
要	need	"(ヨウ) When Clint needs a woman, he likes to be on top."	9	1604	41		"In some movie with the theme of the Old West, the population of a town finds themselve in dire need of women, after all of the town's womens became crazy and started gunshooting and participating in duels and such."	
腰	loins	"If you want to get closer to the actual meaning, then I think that 腰(こし) is more like the hips or the small of the back. After being sat down in the office too long, people often say 腰がいたい！It's the part of the body that needs massaging."	13	1605	41		"To the puritans reading this site - please stop reporting stories that have anything to do with sex! Although (as wrightak said) this kanji really refers to the hips, Heisig clearly chose the keyword 'loins' because it was anatomically close enough, and the primitives lent themselves to an easy-to-remember story. Just because you're all sexually repressed doesn't mean other people won't benefit from a story such as ""the part of the body people need more than any other are the loins""."	
栗	chestnut	"Chestnut tree, west nut tree."	10	1609	41		The cowboy climbed the tree to see where they were in the woods. The poor guy chose a chestnut tree. ouch ouch.	
楠	camphor tree	We traveled to southern Japan just to see a camphor tree. It's what we came for.	13	1614	41		"Trivia: Cinnamomum camphora is native to Taiwan, southern Japan, southeast China and Indochina,."	
問	question	"A mouth on the Gates of Hell says ""Answer me these questions three, or thru the gates ye soon will be""."	11	1617	42		"""Hark! Who goes there?"" is the expected question from the mouth of the guard at the gate…　　　RTK2:　モン　質問　しつもん(question)."	
閉	closed	"The gates are too big to be closed by man. Only a genie can. ""Close sesame!""."	11	1623	42		"You hear lesbians moaning ""オォ~"" from behind closed gates, and you ask a genius how to get in there."	
罪	guilt	"Guilty under the eyes of the law, therefore sentenced to jail. [note: 'UNDER the eye of the law' works in penalty (#833) as well.]."	13	1636	42		"It is his guilt that is causing them. He is having these nightmares where the great (sideways) eye appears at the top of his jail cell, and is staring down intently at him. Guilt is a merciless tormentor."	
韓	Korea	"There's a young Korean male actor, Yon-sama, famous amongst middle-aged Japanese women. Extremely famous. Read about his affect on Japan/Korean relations on Everything2.com. In any case, women just flipped over this guy, traveled to Korea to see his home, started taking Korean language classes, etc. So, imagine here the misty eyes of the Japanese women as they clutch their lockets with Yon-sama's picture inside watching his Korean romantic mini series called ""Winter Sonata""."	18	1647	42		This character represents the flag of South Korea: a locket (circular taegeuk) in the middle of the mist (white background). http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_South_Korea.	
軒	flats	"Flats in the city are crowded. You get a space for your car in front, and a clothesline out back. Nothing else."	10	1652	43		Small flats (garages) for cars help keeping them dry.	
余	too much	You hang an umbrella upside-down on a hook of the scales and fill it with little potatoes. No luck: it weights too much.	7	1657	43		"This is the kanji for 「あまり Amari」, which means too little in negative sentences and too much in the rest (always with a negative sense). I take the liberty of using the symbol "">"" (more than, another meaning!!) as the umbrella component, and using two (#2) and little (#105) for the potato primitive. So, this kanji either means ""two much"" (more than 2) or ""two little"". (thanks, Virtua_leaf and Thunderball!)."	
斜	diagonal	The main bar of an old-fashioned scale(balance) will be very diagonal if you place a giant measuring cup on one side.	11	1662	43		"The constellation of libra (meaning "" scales"" in latin) is diagonal to the handle of the big dipper."	
衝	collide	Two heavy trucks in a game of chicken collide while racing toward each other on the boulevard.	15	1680	43		"衝 【しょう】 (n) (1) important point (e.g. on a route); (2) important role (responsibility, etc.); (3) (astronomical) opposition. STORY:Two HEAVY trucks are playing a game of chicken on the BOULEVARD. However, they both missed the IMPORTANT POINT: that they have to turn in different directions. Naturally, they COLLIDE when they both turn in the same direction. (ty dingomick)."	
薫	fragrant	"Do you know how they make those FRAGRANT air fresheners? Well you take some FLOWERS, compress them with a HEAVY weight, and put them on an OVEN FIRE for a while... (cmp perfume (#493))."	16	1681	43		The heavier the flowers the stronger their fragrance when you burn them.	
疾	rapidly	"I picture a sick caveman, and two people rapidly blowing darts at him. One is blowing poison darts, the other is blowing antidote darts. Will the sick caveman live or die? Depends on how rapidly they fire."	10	1686	44		"If shot with a poison dart, sickness develops rapidly."	
癖	mannerism	Caveman has a bad mannerism of putting ketchup on everything he eats. I guess that's ok since raw mammoth can't be too good...	18	1691	44		This mannerism is a sickness of the modern generation. It was only recently that we started putting ketchup on everything.	
仰	faceup	All stamps in Mr T's collection box are lied carefully face-up.	6	1701	44		"Mr T with the post package at the post office: 'these stamps don't stick to the box, foo' Postguy:' Try it again but this time with the stamp, face-up.'."	
発	discharge	I spent some time in her TEEPEE...just the TWO of us...but I looked between her HUMAN LEGS and I saw a nasty DISCHARGE...so I made my 出発　rather hastily.	9	1705	44		"Two pairs of human legs poking out of a teepee: you know there'll be a discharge soon, be it sexual, violent (husband returns home with a weapon), or dishonourable (soldier caught molesting a native), or perhaps all of the above."	
彫	carve	Start with a circumference and carve away until you get the shape you want.	11	1710	45		"[My primitive for shape is Mystique, the shape-shifter from X-Men.] Mystique the shape-shifter carves obscure markings around the circumfrence of her blue body."	
彰	patent	The shape of a sheriff's badge makes it patent who he is.	14	1715	45		Mystique the shape-shifter sneaks into the patent office easily after she steals an identity badge from a security guard.	
英	England	The original great seal of the king of England had a very ornate flower in the center.	8	1741	45		England is a country where people think they're the flower at the center of the world. (a description that would fit China much better.. 中華).	
気	spirit	"Captain Hook, his spirit crushed, is lying on the ground cursing Wolverine who has defeated him with his far superior claws."	6	1885	51		You're reclining on the floor trying to hook a sheaf with a small hook through the cracks. That you've been doing this for seven hours without success shows your burning spirit.	
飛	fly	Hooks with small wings attached look like hummingbirds with a long beak. Two hummingbirds are trying to fly away with our little measuring box. What do they want it for?	9	1887	51		Two hummingbirds flying into a measuring box serving as a bird feeder…　RTK2:　ヒ　飛行機　ひこうき(airplane).	
沈	sink	(thx geezer) The maimed waitress (no head and arms just her legs and trunk) is dropped into the water with a cement crown to make sure she sinks. She shouldn't have been so nosy about her yakuza-boyfriend's schemes.	7	1888	51		"This is the famous story of Archimedes and the Crown, where buoyancy was discovered. Watching the crown sink in the water, Archimedes detected the fraud and ran naked through the city (human legs distorted from running) yelling ""Eureka! Eureka!"" See http://math.nyu.edu/~crorres/Archimedes/Crown/CrownIntro.html and http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eureka_%28word%29."	
衷	inmost	The guy from pathetic (#401) shared his inmost feelings with a girl and she rammed a walking stick down his throat. It ruptured his inmost organs.	9	1891	51		"Besides making money from acting like a dog (see decline), the pathetic man has risked his inmost internal organs by becoming a cane swallower!"	
靴	shoes	Leather shoes are nice because they change shape to fit your foot.	13	1894	51		Leather is often changed into shoes.	
呉	give	"As a present, I gave my dentist a hand-crank tool for spreading mouths. He was so happy since it makes his job easier."	7	1897	51		"I see this as a pictograph of an old-style phonograph - a stand, record, crank and bell (the mouth). Even the primitives work out - a tool with a crank which plays music out of the bell mouth. Imaginge giving one of these old and beautiful phonographs to a classical or jazz music buff!"	
娯	recreation	"A man from a less enlightened society comes for a visit, and asks the host to give him a woman for some recreation."	10	1898	51		"While at the dentist's office giving him his hand-crank tool, one of the assistant's asks me if I'd like to join her in the back for some recreation."	
承	acquiesce	To get someone to completely acquiesce it takes 3 dunks in the water before they give.	8	1901	51		"To get someone to acquiesce, duck them completely in aqua (=water) three times. (variation on dingomick's)."	
函	bin	Damn racoons ill show them. I put a snare in the bin as well as a few phosphorous sparklers so as to scare the shit out of the buggers as they rummage through my bin.	8	1902	51		"(thegeezer3) Damn racoons... I'll show them. I'll put a SNARE in the BIN as well as a few SPARKLERS so as to scare the shit out of the buggers, then hit them with a SHOVEL."	
釈	explanation	"Mrs. Badger follows the animal tracks to the den where she finds her husband getting a blowjob from a fox. ""I have a good explanation for this. Really!""."	11	1908	52		"Animal track primitive: As expected, animal tracks were left in place of the trail of rice I'd purposely dropped the night before. EDIT - also try the footprint for a primitive meaning, the classic symbol of detective films. STORY: This shakuhachi player is so talented, he can do interpretations of animal noises too. They're so realistic he soon has animal tracks leading straight to wherever he's playing."	
番	turn	The famers take it in turns to watch out for any animal tracks on their rice field.	12	1909	52		They take turns alternating between wheat and rice in this field…　　RTK2:　バン　電話番号　でんわばんごう(telephone number).	
翻	flip	"Don't play dice with birds. When you're not looking, they'll flip the dice with their feathers."	18	1911	52		"When the birds out the back are playing dice, they flip their feathers (not their finger) at their opponents."	
藩	clan	"This character refers to feudal clans that were abolished in 1871 (Meiji 4) in favor of prefectures (廃藩置県), and thus were predecessors of the modern prefectures. As we know from 落, flowers and water drops each have their own way of falling. This character says that clans' location was decided in the way flowers, water drops and dice fall: at random. See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Han_%28country_subdivision%29."	18	1912	52		"In the particular clan depicted by this character, each member has to take his or her turn watering the flowers."	
尾	tail	A dog waves its furry tail like a flag.	7	1915	52		A FLAG of FUR is a TAIL.	
偽	falsehood	"Mr. T doesn’t ""DO"" FALSEHOOD. It goes against everything he stands for. “I pity da foos who revel in FALSEHOODs!”."	11	1919	52		"""It depends on what your definition of do, uh, is,"" says Mr. T giving falsehood about his affair with a peacock."	
脹	dilate	Taking Viagra let's your blood vessels dilate...resulting in a body part getting long.	12	1923	52		"Staying out in the dark moonlit sky for a long time, your pupils dilate."	
喪	miss	"I miss my parents dearly. Here they lay, under a big cross, their mouths side by side. I stick hairpins in their graves. CAREFUL: the stroke order/primitive order is: ten, L mouth, R mouth, hairpin. ""Soil"" is not drawn in its stroke order."	12	1926	52		"This kanji means miss as in ""miss a (dearly departed) person"", not as in ""miss a target"".　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　Here the dearly departed has been buried in the ground, with her favourite hairpin in place of a gravestone, and two mourners stand around crying with open mouths."	
禅	Zen	"Knowing ZEN’s emphasis on “nothingness,” it’s not hard to envision a ZEN ALTAR being quite clean and SIMPLE."	13	1930	53		"Simple-minded blond girl (see frame 1928) is very good at Zen, which isn't surprising since she doesn't think much. She has this bad habit of meditating perched on the main temple altar, which infuriates the Zen buddhists. When they get up to her and tell her rudely to step down the altar, she just smiles and teases them : ""Not very zen are you ?"". Who would have thought simple-minded blond girl would teach the Zen buddhists a lesson !"	
獣	animal	"The owl looks for its prey in the rice field. It sees so many potential animals to eat but since it only has one mouth, it decides that the tasty looking chihuahua will be its meal for tonight. (adapted from Copycatken,1-9-2006)."	16	1933	53		"I have a strange story for this one but it works. I imagine a owl getting into a rice field which serves as a boxing ring. His opponent is a little chihuahua. The fight starts, the owl takes one punch to the mouth and is out cold. In the chihuahua's corner is that coach from Rocky saying ""Your an ANIMAL!!"". A vivid image of this story works pretty well for me."	
脳	brain	The brain is the part of the body that an owl will use to defeat the villain.	11	1934	53		The brain is the part of the body that can give you the wisdom of the owl... or the wickedness of the villain.	
鎖	chain	The chain on this chainsaw is made of little metal shells.	18	1937	53		A gold chain with small seashells hanging on it is in fashion these days.	
鳥	bird	There is only one bird with such beautiful white tail feathers: the albino peakcock.	11	1941	53		The BIRD let loose a WHITE ONE from it's TAIL FEATHERS...right on my new car!	
鶴	crane	"The original version of the ""Ugly Duckling"" was about a crane who grew up in a turkey coop. All the other birds made fun of it for not having a wattle or a snood or fanning its tail..."	21	1943	53		"Do you know how cranes came to be? Well, they used to keep the poor bird cooped all the time. But the crane really wanted to be free, so it would always streatch its head and neck out of the coop trying to be free."	
島	island	This island is the home of the terrible mythical bird Roc. It sits mighty atop the mountain waiting for the next hapless ship to pass by.	10	1948	53		Birds living on remote mountainous islands have few preditors. Tail feathers aren't really needed are they? Evolutionary process at work!...　RTK2:　トウ　半島　はんとう(peninsula).	
隅	corner	Jiminy Cricket has a favorite corner he likes to slip into at The Pinnacle for a long drink.	12	1958	53		Oh how the pious fall from their lofty pinnacles! Jiminy Cricket now deals drugs on the street corner.	
揺	swing	I keep swinging gleefuly on the talons of the soaring condor until he slices off my fingers and sends me plummeting.	12	1967	53		"For the condor primitive: A condor is like a vulture, but twice as big and it lives near mountains (a suitable place for such a majestic bird). For swing: I'm sitting on a swing when a condor comes by and picks up the whole swing set with its big finger-like claws and now I'm swinging in mid-air. Weeeeeeeee!!!!!"	
墾	groundbreaking	"It was the groundbreaking of the new farm, but there was an uninvited guest to the ceremony. It was a famous skunk, the one with the familiar silver stripe. The feet of the crowd rushing from the ceremony site churned up the soil very nicely. The ceremony was ruined but the groundbreaking was a great success."	16	1971	53		"I got sprayed by a skunk, so no one is helping me with the groundbreaking of my farm. On a positive note, I found silver laying all over the soil. Mine all mine!"	
勉	exertion	Notice how BUGS BUNNY's legs (hint about stroke extension) are starting to get big MUSCLES? It must be because he's always EXERTING himself on the run from Elmer Fudd (or from kicking the shit out of Elmer Fudd when he catches up!!).	10	1975	53		Hint: Energizer bunny.	
駒	pony	"The cute little innocent-looking plastic pony on the desk of a student is in fact a trojan horse, hiding phrases in its belly which are used for cheating during an exam. No pony will be permitted on desks during tests!"	15	1979	54		"A particular My Little Pony has a string that when you pull it, it repeats the same dumb phrase like ""I love you""."	
虚	void	"In Japanese folklore there is no hell, but there is the void. There, a row of tigers waits in the blackness to devour those souls who have failed in their spiritual life."	11	1993	54		Warning to Sigfreid and Roy: Your entertainment contract will be null and void unless you can make all the tigers stand in a row.	
戯	frolic	This is a story about the end of the universe. The universe is turning into a featureless void. There's nothing we can do about it except for throw a fiesta and frolic a little bit before it's all over.	15	1994	54		"Sigfreid and Roy's contract having been voided, the tiger is free to frolic about at the fiesta."	
虐	tyrannize	"Here we see the evil tyrannizing tiger. What is on his chest? A giant E, for EVIL, of course."	9	1998	54		"The ""E"" shape actually means claws here, and the real etymology is a tiger tyrannizing other animals with its claws (the etymologies actually make sense once in a blue moon!). I think of the claws here as two hooks, representing the front paws. (stroke order of that part: 二＋last of 直)."	
麗	lovely	"The anthropologist made an exact deer painting from the cave ceiling on the ceiling of his house. Too bad they're both mediocre. All his wife could say was, ""How...lovely.""."	19	2002	54		Lovely bambi.... pictographe : just take a look at those innocent open eyes (part 1 it's not more far fetched than seeing mediocre in it) with thin eyebrows what a lovely deer ...(part 2).	
震	quake	Bruce Lee has magical abilities in his newest movie. He can conjure rain and earthquakes.	15	2010	55		"A la Kung Fu Hustle, Bruce Lee descends from the storm and causes an earthquake by smashing the ground."	
唇	lips	"I love Bruce Lee dubbing. His lips move, but sometimes words don't come out of his mouth."	10	2013	55		"Bruce Lee says ""Read my lips..."", but when I try to, his mouth isn't moving with the dialogue."	
関	connection	The golden calf is sent to the gates of Hell for it's connection to false idols.	14	2017	55		There's a weird connection between worshipping the golden calf and visiting the gates of Hell.	
魂	soul	"When we die, our soul rises up in a ghostlike rising cloud of mist up to heaven (we hope) (Adapted from darg_sama,28-10-2005)."	14	2021	55		"When you die, your SOUL either goes to the RISING CLOUDS (heaven) or to the ONI (hell, the devil)."	
巳	sign of the snake	"Haha! If you are reading this then I beat you. You went too slow, browsed the forum too long, or stayed out too late with your Japanese girl/boyfriend, whilst I, Kanji Master (you may call me 'sir'), sat alone in my room with a leaky pen and a clawed grip. All your kanji are belong to me, Heisig. And just remember; I beat you."	3	2042	56		"The snake likes stealing pieces from mosaics, so if you notice your mosaic has a piece missing, that’s a sign of the snake."	
此	this here	"I'm not going to use 'this here' as a primitive because it's too vague. But 'stop and sit down', usually tied to a tour guide explaining scenery works for me.//Stop and sit down to have a look at this here."	6	2043		シ	"A wildlife explorer, let's call him Steve Irwin, the sadly passed away wildlife expert, is tracking down an animal in a forest. He finds a footprint, and gets out a spoon to taste it. He scrapes the spoon over the floor and tries it. ""Now, this here is a crocodile footprint"" he announces."	
柴	brushwood	"(From mantixen's) I'll stop and sit down on this here tree, which happens to be brushwood. Now I have to brush wood off my butt."	10	2044		サイ	"I'll stop and sit down on this here tree, which happens to be brushwood."	
砦	fort	"Stop and sit down to listen to the tour guide's story. ""These stones down there used to be a fort, but the enemy came and tore the place down. It has never been rebuild""."	11	2045		サイ	"(Grammar and story adjustment from astridtops story) You STOP AND SIT DOWN to listen to the tour guides story. ""These STONES are remnants of what used to be a fort long ago, but the enemy came and tore the place down. It has never been rebuilt""."	
些	whit	Those two tourists from my tour group don't have a whit of common sense. They never stop and sit down when the tour guide tells them to!	8	2046		サ	I am at my whit's end with these two. They never just stop and sit down. Kids are nerve racking.	
髭	beard	"""Please stop and sit down to look to the painting up there"", the tour guide says. ""We don't know exactly who is on the painting, but from the shape of the hair and the distinctive beard, we think they meant to depict President Lincoln.""."	17	2047		シ	"A beard is hair that, instead of wanting it SHAPED like your friends, you grow it LONG so that you can STOP, SIT DOWN and scratch it thoughtful while considering this here and that there."	
璃	crystal	"Michael Jackson is the king of pop, wearing his crystal rhinestone glove (see detach (#1492)."	14	2048		リ	"In my story for detatch detach (#1492), the left side primitive was junkie. The top-hatted villian of society with a belt around their elbow. Here, the junkie is getting a fix of crystal meth: the jewel in the crown of today's drugs."	
禽	fowl	"Being a Terrorist on the FBI most wanted list, Bin Laden must constantly move from place to place and is never quite certain where is going to sleep. Sometimes he can count on a loyal supporter to let him stay in a spare room, but when traveling to more remote parts of Arabia, he is sometimes forced to sleep under an umbrella with the fowl. (which consequently, makes him smell rather foul)."	13	2049		キン	Michael Jackson stands under an umbrella feeding some fowl on his ranch.	
檎	apple	"A flying fowl smashes into a tree and all the apples drop off. ""Eureka!"" shouts Newton, who happens to be watching."	17	2050		キン	Michael Jackson stands under an umbrella in case an apple falls way off the tree like he did.	
憐	sympathize with	Tom Cruise - American with sunglasses (thanks synewave). I can't sympathize with Tom Cruise's state of mind regarding scientology.	15	2051		レン	"After the Bush years, you can sympathize with the state of mind of Americans for wearing sunglasses when traveling abroad. Heck, I tell people I'm Canadian."	
燐	phosphorus	"Tom Cruise's shoes caught on fire, because he was using phosphorous to shine them."	16	2052		リン	"The shoeshiner always starts by cleaning the shoes first with phosphorus. This is a bit risky, though, and he sets himself on fire (picture him running around in flames)."	
麟	camelopard	"As a scientologist, A DEER to TOM CRUISE, is not just a deer. It is actually a descendent of a camelopard that was sent by extraterrestrials."	23	2053		リン	"You saw a camelopard!? Bullshit! Next your going to tell me that you saw a deer getting a shoeshine. (Actually I saw a camelopard getting a shoeshine, but now that you mention it, his body did look like a deer...)."	
鱗	scaled	"Little known fact: Tom Cruise turns into a merman at night, scaled like a fish and everything. Weird."	23	2054		リン	"A scaled fish goes to a shoeshine place to get his scales shined up to impress the lady fish. (Shoeshines will shine up any type of scaled creature, including but not limited to fish and dragons)."	
奄	encompassing	"The DACHSHUND is so long he can stretch himself around the circumference of the earth, encompassing the whole globe. (It might help to think of the dachshund as the slinky dog from Toy Story.)."	8	2055		エン	"Can't work with the Heisig primitive of Dachshund, as the all encompassing big eel is obviously the mythical Norse Midgard Snake."	
庵	hermitage	"The hermit's home, his hermitage, is a simple CAVE where he lives with his pet DACHSHUND."	11	2056		アン	"At the famous Hermitage museum in St. Petersburg, they have a cave below the museum with a big sculpture of the Midgard Snake."	
掩	shrouded	"When your fingers completely encompass something, it is shrouded from view."	11	2057		エン	"Apparently there is a cult worshipping the Midgard Snake, which is shrouded in mystery. Members have to cut off one of their fingers to join up."	
俺	myself	"""I did it all by myself!"" Mr T stands there proud as holding a moray eel in his hand. He's brought down terrorist organisations, drug syndicates, but gets all worked up when catching a fish... what a guy."	10	2058		エン	"As astridtops mentions, this is ""Ore"". In Japanese r = l, so could write it ""Ole"". So picture a bullfight with person as the matador and a dachshund replacing the bull. The crowd keep shouting ""Ole! (Ore)""."	
悛	make amends	"Data accidentally bumps into a legal prostitute, causing her to fall on her ass. To make amends, he invites her to a romantic dinner."	10	2059		シュン	"I used to beat up random licenced walkers of the street, but I've had some nagging guilt at the back of my state of mind for months now. So I've decided to make amends by throwing small change at them while driving down the road."	
駿	steed	"This should be obvious, owners of prize race horse (STEEDS) are paid to have their STEED mate with another (hopefully to produce a prize winning foal). Yep, the STEEDS are glorified HORSE HOOKERS."	17	2060		シュン	"Trojan horse, legal prostitute: The guy told the legal prostitute that he is like a steed in the bed and that she should do it for free. However, afterward - being severely disappointed- she considered him more like a Trojan horse."	
峻	steep	Steep prices for streetwalkers up a mountain.	10	2061		シュン	"There are legal prostitutes waiting on top of a steep mountain. Not only is the mountain steep, but so are the cost of the legal prostitutes."	
竣	complete a job	"I like mantixen's thinking. As long as its still standing up, the streetwalker still needs to complete her job!"	12	2062		ドウ	The streetwalker has to make something stand up in order to complete a job.	
臼	mortar	I removed all the back to back staples and grinded them in a mortar to create metal dust.	6	2063		キュウ	"The mortar bomb exploded, ripping the sun in half."	
舅	father-in-law	"My father-in-law is more fun than my blood father. My father-in-law is a hillbilly with an arsenal of army gear. He gave me the mortar launcher and said: ""Be a man! Blow up a chunk of Planet Earth!"" And so I did..."	13	2064		キュウ	"(from astridtops) ""Real men don't use mortars"", said my father-in-law, as he began to grind some stones down using only his fists."	
鼠	mouse	"You are chasing the famous three blind mice and try to catch them by slamming a mortar on top of them. Success! You can see their three tails sticking out from under the mortar. In fact the impact has broken the first two tails, as you can see from the sharp angle they bend at, and the two drops (blood) on each. The third tail still curves nicely though, and hence has no drops of blood on it."	13	2065		ソ	"A pictograph of an elaborate mouse-catching device. A hook on the front to grab them, a couple of alternating ploughs to slice them (spattered with drops of blood) and a mortar on top for the big jobs."	
鑿	bore	"This is pretty much only used in the word 鑿(のみ), chisel. Missile + metal is obviously a hammer being swung. The needle is the chisel and the mortar represents the impressions left (bored) by the chisel. For some reason the chisel is used to make a row of such impressions here, and the work is done in such a difficult place that it has to be done upside down. Perhaps this is some sort of sabotage, done in a place that is not readily visible to the outside."	28	2066		サク	Hanging upside down in a row are ten mortars. You must shoot chisel tipped missiles into all of them and successfully bore holes through them in order to get the prize of gold. Talk about a messed up county fair game!	
毀	break	"To ""break the soil"" is to make a symbolic gesture that indicates the beginning of construction. Like when a politician in a hardhat gets a shovel and lifts a piece of dirt. This particular project is behind schedule, so to speed things up, they blow it up with mortar and an air-to-ground missile."	13	2067		キ	"Wow, that baker must really be mad! He's trying to BREAK his MORTAR by throwing it to the SOIL. Whoa! Now he's aiming a MISSILE at it!"	
艘	small craft	"In a small craft, the boat is so small that you hit yourself in the crotch when trying to use a mortar and walking stick (as a pestle)."	16	2068		ショウ	"In military terms, a small craft is a boat that only has enough room for a mortar that fires walking sticks - which is pretty useless unless you hit the enemy in the crotch."	
犀	rhinoceros	"Mr. Rhinoceros doesn't see well, so to prevent an unwanted attack, I don't surprise him. I always approach waving a flag attached to my walking stick. I've drawn a picture of the I-ching and an attractive cow on the flag, so Mr. Rhinoceros will stay calm when he sees it."	11	2069		サイ	I hang a flag imprinted with the picture of a rhinoceros on the grill of my car to scare cows.	
皐	lunar month	"For 二十二 days of the lunar month, a girl is fine. The other six days she wears a white pad."	11	2070		コウ	To keep track of time on a desert island Tom Hanks puts a needle into the white part of his yin yang symbol every time a lunar month passes.	
脊	spinal column	"""Look"", says the teacher in biology class. ""The spinal column holds your flesh together, just like the metal rod of this umbrella (he demonstrates this with an umbrella covered in I-Ching symbols) holds the umbrella together""."	10	2071		セキ	"A pictograph of a spinal column. The umbrella representing the shoulder blades, the I Ching as the shoulder muscles and the part of the body as the spine itself."	
畷	rice-field footpath	In the rice-field footpath I found a condom (used to protect you from the one in four crotches that shouldn't be done ヌde) of someone who couldn't afford a hotel.	13	2072		テツ	"Rope ladder, like as found on the side of a large ship. The rice-field footpath depicted here is actually a rope ladder suspended a metre above the rice field. Don't let your limbs slip through!"	
綴	mend	"SPIDEY has to mend his own costume, so he used the CROSS-STITCHING his aunt showed him."	14	2073		テイ	"After a long fight with his enemies, Spider-Man uses THREAD to mend the EMBROIDERY on his torn outfit."	
爾	let it be	"Story by katsuo (but not yet posted) - At a small concert for the Beatles I was hanging eight towels from the celing. I asked Paul if he wanted me to stitch them together but he said ""Let It Be""."	14	2074		ジ	"There's a new cabaret show in town called ""It's Raining X-Men"" where eight Chippendales dress up in superhero costumes for the ladies. I would say something negative, but I just shake my head and let it be."	
璽	imperial seal	"This aquatic mammal belongs to the emperor, so it's an imperial seal. Nobody is allowed to mess with it. They have to let it be wherever it wants to go. You can spot it from the other seals by the jewel studded collar around the neck of the imperial seal, but above all, remember to let it be."	19	2075		ジ	"If you find a jewel with the imperial seal on it, just let it be. You wouldn't want to be accused of stealing the royal family jewels."	
鎧	suit of armor	"""Without the right metal, that there suit of armor won't mount to more than a hill 'o beans!"" said the dwarven smith as I embarked on my quest - with my aluminum-foil hat and shield."	18	2076		カイ	A suit of armor crafted from metal so strong that it could withstand the weight of a mountain of beans.	
凱	triumph	"After eating a mountain of beans, I was able to triumph in the wind contest."	12	2077		ガイ	"With the wind blowing, it was a triumph for Jack to climb the giant beanstalk."	
妖	bewitched	"If you don't want to get bewitched (and who would?), then avoid any woman you see carrying what might appear to be a sapling. It's really a wand in disguise, and if you're not aware you might get bewitched."	7	2078		ヨウ	"I was bewitched by the woman fairy (like an angel, but not as tall)."	
沃	irrigate	You use water to irrigate your saplings.	7	2079		ヨウ	"A fairy needs a lot of water to irrigate those beating wings, so you have make sure they drink a lot to be well irrigated (see bewitched (#2078)."	
呑	quaff	"After planting the saplings, the villagers open their mouth and quaff large quantities of sake!"	7	2080		トン	The fairy spreads her legs over my mouth to let me quaff her moisture.	
韮	leek	You can tell green onions from leeks because leeks are the ones that flower.	12	2081		キュウ	"For the green onion primitive, I use a pun: Green UN ONE. Leeks are milder than green onions, they're more like the flowers of the scallion family."	
籤	lottery	"I never play the lottery. I'd rather be whacked by bamboo staffs as I pass down an assembly line than do that. Of course, when a buddy wins, I'll go to the fiesta and enjoy the special salsa packed with green onions, but I will never play the lottery myself."	23	2082		セン	"(based on mantixen's) If I won the lottery, I wouldn't even need to go speed dating (a fiesta to form couples) to find a woman, even if I had onionbreath they'd be flocking in my direction. On second thoughts.. I'd better buy a bamboo cane to keep the ugly ones away."	
懺	penitential	Someone stole the bamboo from the previous lottery--but I'm sure their state of mind is very penitential.	20	2083		ザン	"Indiana Jones: ""The penitent man shall pass. The penitent man shall pass."" Indy's state of mind is screaming at him that something is wrong. This assembly line of death is giving all kinds of hints that something is wrong. ""Oh hey, green onions!"" Indy ducks down to grab them and the trap misses him completely... fiestas ensue..."	
芻	hay	The 2 mountain goats have to bind up all the hay then the farmer might give them their horns back.	10	2084		スウ	"This one is easy if you know the old form of grass (艸); To make hay, get the old grass, bind up the clumps individually, and then stack them vertically."	
雛	chick	"A young chick milling about in the hay looks up and sees a huge turkey looking down on it. Turkey leans down and says: ""Boy, you got no hope of leavin this place alive...""."	18	2085		スウ	The chick got lost in the hay. Now mama turkey is throwing the stuff all over looking for her chick.	
趨	scurry	"If you suddenly open the barn doors, the rats will scurry away, RUNNING quickly over the HAY scattered across the floor."	17	2086		スウ	"Imagine a cartoon character hiding in a haystack, and then trying to run - the result is a haystack scurrying across the field."	
尤	understandably	A chihuahua with one human leg is understandably not as fast as other chihuahuas.	4	2087		ユウ	That one-human-legged chihuahua that appeared before the capital in concerning (#1969) is understandably traumatized by the abuse he suffered at the hands of the scientists.	
稽	training	"After a hard day of training, wheat is understandably delicious."	16	2088		ケイ	"After training hard and eating Wheaties for months, you are understandably thrilled to sink your spoon into a delicious hot fudge sundae."	
厖	immense	"Subject to even more cruel experiments in the name of biological science, the one-human-legged chihuahua is injected with chemicals that alters his shape grotesquely, and makes him as immense as a cliff (see how he's tall enough, standing right beneath it, to reach the top?)."	9	2089		ボウ	This pup is immense! It's head is almost level with the edge of this tall cliff. Who ever heard of a chihuahua with a human leg with a shape so immense?	
采	grab	"You ever wondered why this appeared as a primitive in so many RTK1 kanji? Well, you should know that once a vulture grabs hold of a tree, he can never let go. Even Heisig couldn't shake him loose."	8	2090		サイ	"A common meaning for this kanji is 'DICE'. --- Ever wonder what vultures do up in the trees? They play DICE. But of course, being vultures, they are always grabbing the dice away from each other."	
或	a	"Aru starts with a. To most Japanese, the differance between ""a"" and ""the"" is confusing. It wasn't ""the"" mouth of someone important on the floor at the fiesta, it was just a mouth of a common drunk."	8	2091		ワク	"A is an indefinate article alright. At this fiesta, the band wern't the genuine article either. So the patrons threw them off the stage (""Aaaaaa!"") and pressed their mouthes against the floor. ""Sing no more you talentless hacks!!'."	
斬	chop off	"A ""chop shop"" is a place where stolen cars are taken, and parts chopped off with an axe, to be sold."	11	2092		ザン	I wanted a convertible so I chopped off the top of my car with an axe.	
兎	rabbit	There is no excuse (#1972) 免 for you un-binding this rabbit out of its cage so that it can drop pellets all over my new carpet!	7	2093		ト	"A real rabbit always leaves DROPs of poo pellets behind, and his ears are no longer bound up (compere excuse (#1972)), so they flap above like helicopter blades (pictograph), and his MOUTH still is wide-open with the STAFF-like tongue, and his powerful LEGS still look like a human's."	
也	est	"This is the kanji for the classical form of ""is"". I think Heisig's keyword ""est"" is the old english or latin word for ""is"". The Scorpion this est!"	3	2094		ヤ	"""Est"" is the latin third person singular of the verb ""esse"" (to be) in Latin. So, this word has been chosen to point out that this character is found chiefly in Classical Japanese (also names). I imagine an incredibly haughty Latin Scorpion, looking down at his vast estate and saying ""Mihi est"". This literally mean ""It is to me"" and means ""It's mine"" ... this is gramatically similar to how Japanese express possession too, incidentally."	
尭	lofty	The strawman had a lofty ambition of becoming human.	8	2095		ギョウ	Getting lofty up in the loft. The two lovers rolling around in the straw hit a loose board in the floor. It breaks and it ends up with one of their human legs sticking out of the bottom. Whoops.	
巴	comma-design	"The ""comma-design"" referred to: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tomoe."	4	2096		ハ	This is a comma-design outlaid in mosaic on the floor.	
甫	offspring	"At this hospital, all the new offspring are immediately given little dog tags with the parent's name on them, just to be sure there is no chance of a mix-up."	7	2097		ホ	"I'll call this ""firstly"" since it really has the meaning of ""first time"" or ""beginning"". First thing any soldier gets is a dogtag."	
疋	critters	The zoo is full of critters.	5	2098		ヒキ	"Yup, we counted lots of critters in the zoo."	
菫	violet	"This is a violet cabbage, hanging from a nail on the kitchen wall."	12	2099		キン	"Violets are blue, cabbages are green. Flowers on a spike are a sight rarely seen."	
曼	mandala	Spending the day with your eye on your crotch as you meditate on the mandala.	11	2100		マン	"Citing my story for ridicule (#829): ""It's clearly an Indian mandala, with the Buddha sitting cross-legged, eyes closed as in trance, beneath the sun, a symbol of the enlightenment which one can reach by practicing His teachings.""."	
巾	towel	"If it looks like a towel, speaks like a towel and walks like a towel... I wonder why Heisig didn't include this one (as an actual kanji) in RtK 1."	3	2101		キン	Primative from RTK1.	
云	quote	Think of manga where what a person says is quoted in a rising cloud.	4	2102		ウン	The messages of the Indian Chief were quoted in rising clouds.	
卜	augury	A magic wand is used for augury.	2	2103		ボク	Augury means 'the practice of interpreting omens.' Magicians have a magic wand to perform augury with.	
喬	heaven-high	"Angels go to classes at heaven-high. They quaff their thirst for knowledge, sure that the instructors there will never give them a belt in the mouth. Not at heavan-high!"	12	2104		キョウ	Angels enroll at heaven-high (it's even made of the elements heaven and high. How easy can it be?).	
莫	shalt	"""Thou shalt not kill"", 'cause the graveyard is full. There's no room left to dispose of the evidence!"	10	2105		バク	"Just flowery words from the Big guy?: ""Thou shalt remember the sabbath day and keep it holy."	
倭	Yamato	Mr. T was selected to head up the committee studying the Yamato period.	10	2106		ワ	There's always a person named Yamato on every committee. And I always hate them.	
侠	chivalry	"Mr T approaches the knights and stabs his scissors into the table they're seated at. ""I pity the fool who questions my chivalry!""."	8	2107		キョウ	"Mr. T believes in chivalry - so whenever he plays a game of rock, paper, scissors, he always throws scissors to let the other person win. Note that this has nothing to do with women at all (hence the absence of women in this kanji) - just with everybody being weaker than Mr T."	
倦	fed up	"Mr T has been chasing some fools for a while, but they keep leaving riddle scrolls behind, making Mr T use his noggin to try and catch them. ""Mr T is fed up with these fool games!""."	11	2108		ケン	Mr. T invented the book because he was fed up with scrolls.	
佼	comely	"Mr T mingles amongst the crowd, seeming more comely than his usual offish self."	8	2109		キョウ	Mr. T only likes to mingle with comely people.	
俄	abrupt	A person with a big ego is not afraid to treat others abruptly.	9	2110		ガ	Mr. T is known to be particularly abrupt with anybody that has a big ego.	
佃	work a field	"Not so long ago, if Mr T was working in a field, he would have been a slave."	7	2111		テン	"The first television show that Mr T ever worked on was a slavery period drama. Operating on the assumption that all black people look alike, the director decided to save on his budget by just hiring one black person. In each scene requiring slaves in the background to work a field, he would put Mr T in the rice paddy in the background. Then when they changed the scene, he would simply put Mr T there too - no changing clothes, no CG - just the same dude in the background of EVERY scene."	
伶	minstrel	"Mr. T orders the minstrel to play a happy song, one full of frank and mirth."	7	2112		レイ	"Mr T enters the royal chamber dressed up as a minstrel, playing his lute and taking orders from the monarchy. ""Say, good bard, doth thouest know the fable of King Arthur?"" ""Of course I know that one, fool!""."	
仔	animal offspring	"Remember that sordid affair (#959) when Mr. T was caught having relations with a cow? Well, some months later the heifer drops off the child at T's place. Does Mr. T share responsibility for his animal offspring?"	5	2113		シ	People normally buy their child some animal offspring such as a puppy or kitten for a pet.	
仇	foe	"Mr. T uses a baseball bat for hitting foes. ""I pity the foe! I mean fool!""."	4	2114		キュウ	Mr. T can handle nine foes all by himself!	
伽	look after	Mr T has been charged to look after the kids. He will use his muscle to protect them and make sure their mouths are fed.	7	2115		カ	Mr. T looks after the kids by making sure they get enough カロ ries.	
僅	trifle	MR. T doesn't look a TRIFLE bit scared of the CABBAGE PATCH KID.	12	2116		キン	To MR.T swallowing a whole CABBAGE is no more than a TRIFLE.	
僻	biased	"In the great debate between ketchup and mustard, it's well-known that Mr. T is quite biased."	15	2117		ヘキ	"In the great debate between Heinz and Hunts, it's well-known that Mr. T is quite biased. (thanks Megaqwerty!)."	
儲	make a profit	People make a profit in various ways. That is capitalism.	17	2118		チョ	"Faith, lovedoll: Mr T, having faith in the word of God, prayed really hard for the girlfriend he could never get in the regular way. God listened, but sent him a lovedoll instead. Being severely disappointed, mr T decided to prostitute her and make a profit instead."	
倖	bliss	Bliss is a person in a state of happiness.	10	2119		コウ	"Mr. T thinks ""bliss"" sounds silly, so he's standing by his choice of ""happiness"" instead."	
僑	emigrant	"Mr T, angel: Believe it or not, but mr T is actually an angel. He emigrated from heavens to right the wrongs on planet earth."	14	2120		キョウ	"When people emigrate, they believe they are going to some better place, a place which to them, is heaven-high."	
侶	partner	"Mr. T don't take a partner, especially one with no spine. ""I pity da foo got no spine"", he says."	9	2121		リョ	"As a PARTNER, I want a PERSON with a strong SPINE."	
伎	performing artist	"Mr T is dancing and singing and all that, but he's doing it on a branch. All that talent and can still still keep his balance? That's a real performing artist."	6	2122		ギ	(note: this is the 'ki' from kabuki).//The performing artist is a person doing Kabuki theater and dancing around with a branch in his hand.	
侃	integrity	"Mr. T is a man of integrity. Every time he opens his mouth, integrity just seems to stream out."	8	2123		カン	Mr T's structural integrity has been compromised. Blood and guts is flowing from his mouth.	
倶	mate	"""Oy, mate"", the carpenter calls out to Mr. T, ""where did you leave my tools, mate?"" Mr. T just hates it when people call him mate. It inspires him to misuse their tools."	10	2124		グ	Mates are a kind of condom that Mr T puts on his tool.	
侭	as is	Mr. T is exhausted! As is the woman who just gave him shakuhachi.	8	2125		ジン	"You see person holding the exhaust pipe which has just dropped off their new car, and say, ""You should return that and get your money back!"". ""Trouble is,"" they reply, ""I bought it as is""."	
佑	adjutant	An assistant is on Mr. T's left and an adjutant on his right. That's cause the adjutant can duck faster!	7	2126		ユウ	"MR.T always has his adjutant on his RIGHT, and his assistant (#952) on his left."	
俣	fork in a road	"Mr. T came to a fork in a road. He pondered which way he should go, when a large mouth appeared in the heavens above him and said ""Go west!"" So, he went to California."	9	2127		0	"Every person at the end of their life, must come to their metaphorical fork in a road, do they go into the mouth of hell, or do they go to heaven? (If it helps, I hear they play Blackjack in hell...)."	
傭	hire	"I pity da foo' with no underlings! So, Mr. T hires some janitor to make his life more comfortable."	13	2128		ヨウ	"In order to make sure his new traditional Japanese cave apartment will be comfortable, Mr. T is wise to hire a handyman who rakes the stone garden, and uses a screwdriver to fix up all of the Japanese electronics (rice cooker, TV, ect)."	
偲	memorial	A memorial service is something that makes you think about a person who has died.	11	2129		サイ	"At a memorial service for Mr. T, everyone is thinking ""I pity that foo""."	
脩	dried meat	"Once again, Mr. T ventured out into the remote area to visit his old taskmaster (see permanence/remote (#958)). However, the old taskmaster has become very weak. His flesh looks like dried meat and his heart almost stopped (no heart). He stayed a whole month to take care about his former teacher."	11	2130		シュウ	"Mr. T doesn't like dried meat. He's been known to take a walking stick to the taskmaster trying to hand him a piece of meat that had been dried out. No, Mr. T doesn't like dried meat a-t a-l-l!"	
倅	my son	"""My son"", sniffs Mr. T, ""I'm so glad that you are now a college graduate"" he said."	10	2131		サイ	"Only after Luke Skywalker graduates as a fully-fledged jedi does Vader finally tell him the big secret - ""I'm your father... you're my son""."	
做	make do	"Note that the meaning of this kanji is ""make (someone) do something"", not ""get by with"". Story: Mr. T doesn't rely on happenstance, he makes people do what he wants."	11	2132		サ	"A person should try to make his own luck, but sometimes you have to make do with happenstance."	
凄	nifty	His wife has a nifty way of making all types of ice cream in her home freezer.	10	2133		セイ	Sugoi! Sugoi! Ice Wife Sugoi!	
冴	sharp	"(Note that per Heisig, this doesn't mean 'able to cut'; it means mentally sharp, adept, or 'on your toes'!) During the Ice Age, cavemen had to be especially careful around the woolly mammoth, because they were more mentally sharp than they looked. If the cavemen weren't careful, they could end up impaled on the mammoths' tusks!"	7	2134		ゴ	A sharp tusk pointing out of the ice. Probably belongs to a mammoth.	
凋	wilt	"You don't want the lettuce to wilt, do you? So, you put ice around the circumference of the serving tray, and then the lettuce on top of that, so it cannot wilt."	10	2135		チョウ	"Plants wilt, wither and die when ice envelopes the circumference of their roots."	
凌	pull through	"On their walk to the Promised Land (land (#1513)), our brave rice-seedlings are faced with an unforeseen obstacle: An ice glacier the size of a rain puddle. Will they be able to pull through?"	10	2136		リョウ	"In a very harsh turn of the weather, the water of the rice fields has turned to ice! The farmers are strutting around the little rice seedlings anxiously on their walking legs, hoping that the plants will pull through and survive!"	
冶	metallurgy	The secrets of metallurgy and smithing: get your redhot metal and bang it against the pedestal as an anvil. Then cool it quickly with lots of ice.	7	2137		ヤ	An ICE PEDESTAL is useless in METALLURGY since it will just melt.	
凛	stately	"Much more stately than that soil podium, this is made of ice. You can still see the dude standing behind it in his top hat, and he still spouts pretty much nonsense as many times as he can, but you have to admit his showy altar is quite stately."	15	2138		リン	"This stately home in Brittain has been used for winter weddings many times. A reverend in a top hat stands behind the altar in the home's chapel, which is adorned with ice sculptures. Very romantic."	
凧	kite	"I'm drying myself at the 露天風呂 (outdoor hot spring) when a sudden gust of wind catches my towel and blows it into the air. I chase after it and onlookers remark, ""Look, he's flying a kite!""."	5	2139		0	"If the wind is strong enough, even a towel makes a good kite."	
凪	lull	A lull in a storm occurs when the wind stops.	6	2140		0	The wind stops for a few minutes as the eye of the hurricane passes over lulling people into a false sense of security.	
夙	earlybird	"The earlybirds always get all the best food at the buffets, and all the latecomers get are just leftover bones, you can almost see the wind and tumbleweeds rolling over it."	6	2141		シュク	You can either fly like the wind and be an earlybird at the buffet or come late and be left with only the bones.	
鳳	phoenix	"Souring in the winds there is only one bird left. The phoenix. It scorched the other birds, never to return..."	14	2142		ホウ	"(The extra stroke combines with white in the bird component to make a hundred-year-old bird) The Phoenix -- the bird made famous in myth, that after it reaches hundreds of years of age, is reborn and rises again on the wind."	
劉	slaughter	"Because the police had confiscated the swords (though they got a receipt in return) from the group of men protecting the gold transport, bandits attacked them with sabers and slaughtered every last one of them."	15	2143		リュウ	"The ransom note explained that if the gold was not received by the following morning, the victim would be slaughtered with a saber."	
刹	moment	Wolverine waiting atop a tree to spring down on Sabretooth at any moment.	8	2144		セチ	Wtf moment? This kanji means temple. Wooden x-men statues with sabres guard the entrance to the Professor Xavier temple. Might help if you imagine the two x-men as Wolverine and Sabretooth.	
剥	peel off	Peel off the outside of the broom that sweeps up rice grains to reveal a saber.	10	2145		ハク	"A multi-purpose broom! It cleans, it sweeps (rice!), it hits! In fact, peel off the mahogany exterior to uncover a sabre! It slices, it dices, it kills!"	
剃	shave	The younger brother wants to look cool and shaves himself with a saber instead of a razor.	9	2146		テイ	My younger brother looks like Sabretooth and needs to shave.	
匂	aroma	The muchacho sits down bound up to enjoy his own aroma.	4	2147		0	"If you bind up a person and let him sit for several days, an unpleasant aroma will result."	
勾	flexed	Your elbow is bound up so that your biceps will stay flexed.	4	2148		コウ	"My elbow was bound up in a cast, making it impossible to keep it flexed."	
厭	despondent	"The poor chihuahua who had fallen down a cliff was totally despondent about his position. He saw the sun and the moon pass by, but expected no rescue any more."	14	2149		エン	"The sun above the moon =total eclipse. Confused by the darkness of the total eclipse, the dog fell off the cliff and became a completely despondent mangled mess."	
雁	wild goose	"I've been sent to chase the wild goose! I'm here at the top of the cliff, and I can hear Mr. T and that tricky turkey down there sniggering about sending me on a search for the wild goose."	12	2150		ガン	"Mr T is sent on a mission to find a wild goose that swallowed some important, top-secret chemicals (they were in a baggie, so he has to find it before it dissolves!). After searching for clues and tracks, he finds it - and backs it up against a cliff. In a heroic move, Mr T jumps off the cliff, grabs the wild goose, and lands on the ground on his back, protecting the volatile wild goose. He then looks at it - wait - this isn't the wild goose, this is a mere turkey! Sent on a wild goose chase!"	
贋	counterfeit	"The police hoped to catch the crooks making counterfeit money, but it all turned out to be a wild goose chase."	19	2151		ガン	You catch a wild goose that lays money (shells) instead of eggs. Unfortunately the bank declares it counterfeit.	
厨	kitchen	"What happened to the kitchen? It was here a second ago... Well, it fell off the cliff. See the table down there below the edge of the cliff? Maybe we can glue it back together. Of course, first we've got to retrieve the kitchen from the base of the cliff."	12	2152		シュウ	I took that Natto (bean glue) out of the kitchen and threw it off a cliff like any rational person would.	
仄	insinuate	"So, you found a dead person abandoned at the bottom of the cliff? You think I might be involved? What are you trying to insinuate?!"	4	2153		ソク	That nasty person likes to insinuate that I am afraid of heights and can't climb a cliff.	
哨	scout	Boy scouts nowadays blow sparks out of their mouth to start a fire. Sure beats rubbing two sticks together .	10	2154		ショウ	"Good scouts extinguish (#144) candles with their mouth, not with water. Otherwise the smoke might tell the enemy where they are."	
嘲	derision	"When I wake up, I am always late, so I hurry to work. With a bad case of perpetual morning breath, I am the subject of derision at my office whenever I open my mouth."	15	2155		チョウ	"If morning breath emanates from your mouth, you are subject to derision!"	
咎	reprehend	Each time I see this kanji I reprehend the person primitive for knocking the each primitive out of shape.	8	2156		キュウ	"You only reprehend him because he is reprehensible! He walks around kicking people, like he wants to dispose of them. And that's all on top of having a big mouth. Reprehensible! Of course you must be the one to reprehend him."	
囁	whisper	If someone's whispering you'd need three ears close to his mouth to be able to hear it.	21	2157		ショウ	"It's funny how if I just talk, no one listens, but if I whisper, many ears are eager to hear what's coming from my mouth."	
喋	chatter	Mouths like to chatter about the new generation on the tree.	12	2158		チョウ	Two good friends looking at their childhood tree house and remembering how it seemed like generations ago since they were up in it chattering away all night.	
咽	windpipe	"You can't breathe very well, so the doc looks inside your mouth to find the cause. ""Oh, I see the cause of your windpipe blockage. There's a St Bernard penned up in there!""."	9	2159		イン	"Imagine a group of windpipes chatting: “That mouth is the cause of all my problems, you know, always breathing in germs, etc.”."	
嘩	quarrel	Mouths quarrel over who is more splendid.	13	2160		カ	These very competitive neighbours open their mouths and quarrel every day about whose silage stack with flowers looks more splendid.	
噂	gossip	"If you open your mouth to gossip about people, it's usually the most fun if you have some juicy bits on people who are generally revered, for instance that they are secretly glued to their bottle of Horned Whiskey."	15	2161		ソン	"""Did you know that the most revered (#1439) chieftain (#2906) is not only a horny guy, but an alcoholic, too? Ah, and I forgot, he also sniffs glue... Ups, did that come out of my mouth? No, no... I NEVER gossip!""."	
咳	cough	"I looked up, opened my mouth and suddenly an acorn fell in! I had to cough it up quickly so that I wouldn't choke."	9	2162		カイ	A squirrel's mouth coughs up an acorn.	
喧	clamor	To clamor means to open your mouth and proclaim loudly your opinions.	12	2163		ケン	"For this keyword, I am reminded of the Night Before Christmas, with the father awakening to see what was the clamor, and his mouth dropping open as he sees the fat bearded man spanning the rooftops (bounding from one house to the other)."	
喉	throat	"""If the marquis opens his mouth one more time, I'll cut his throat"", his rival the baron said."	12	2164		コウ	The Marquis de Sade was kinda gay. He used to mouth down a lot of deep-throat action.	
唾	saliva	"When some people are sleeping, their mouths droop open, and saliva drips out."	11	2165		ダ	Saliva drools from a mouth that droops. つば.	
叩	bash	"These &^% stamps won't stay fixed to the envelop when I lick them with my mouth. No matter how hard I bash them, they come loose every time. Aargh!"	5	2166		コウ	"For me, the kanji looks like a picture of two eyes. Somebody bashed the right one until it burst open. Ugh... Put a stamp on it - I don't want to see it!"	
嘘	fib	うそ = Something void of truth coming from your mouth.	14	2167		キョ	A statement void of truth uttered by a mouth is a fib.	
啄	peck at	"Just like the ones on a rhinoceros, there are little birds who like to peck at the skin near the mouth of a sow and clean it."	10	2168		タク	"If your girlfriend looks like a sow, you do not kiss her on the mouth. Just a little peck at the cheek."	
呪	curse	"Caution: this means a spell, not to swear. I put a curse on my elder brother so that he can never open his mouth."	8	2169		ジュ	Your older brother's mouth often curses.	
吠	barking	The mouth of a chihuahua is good at barking.	7	2170		ハイ	"The mouth of a bird is chirping鳴, just as the mouth of a dog is barking."	
吊	dangle	Dangle a bib or towel under my baby son's mouth.	6	2171		チョウ	A towel dangles under his mouth to keep him clean at dinner.	
噛	chew	Use your teeth to chew what you put in your mouth.	15	2172		コウ	"""When you open your mouth, don't take in more food than you can handle, and chew it properly with your teeth"", mum told us."	
叶	within my ability	"""come true"" is a better keyword IMO. If you speak your wish 10 times it will come true."	5	2173		キョウ	"With his big mouth he claims he can do ten things at once. ""It's all within my ability"", he boasts."	
吻	sides of the mouth	Look at the sides of his mouth! His moustache is tied into great knots. They're not even symetrical. Look at the knots on the right side of the mouth! (though they're there on both sides of the mouth....	7	2174		フン	Dimples. Those knots on the sides of the mouth. Too easy.	
吃	stammer	"""S... Si... S... Sir!"" the beggar's mouth stammers when appealing for some help from the business man. See the mouth open and close like a fish out of water would."	6	2175		キツ	"If you had a gun in your mouth begging for your life, you would stammer too."	
噺	spin a tale	"He really can spin a tale. Every time he opens his mouth, some new and creative tale comes out."	16	2176		0	"Oh yeah, suuure - tell us a new one..."	
噌	miso	"Miso is full of active microbial cultures, so when you put it in your MOUTH, those bacteria just INCREASE and INCREASE until your mouth is overflowing with miso!"	14	2177		ソウ	"Mouth, eyebrows, eyeballs with pupils crossed looking down at the bowl, flapping tongue: A Japanese man eating miso soup."	
唄	pop song	The new generation of pop songs have no depth. They just mouth empty lyrics to get money. Not like the pop songs of my day.	10	2178		バイ	A new way for sluts to use their mouths to make alot of money.	
叱	scold	A kid gets scolded if they don't put the spoon properly into their mouth when eating.	5	2179		シツ	"If I got scolded, I could expect a spoon of castor oil in my mouth."	
邑	city walls	"The city walls are beautifully built. High above you, shows you the famous mouths of former city mayors, all smiling down at you, integrated into a total mosaic making the city walls a unified beautiful work of art."	6	2180		ユウ	"I stand outside the city walls, requesting permission to enter. The guard hands me a Rubik's cube and tells me ill only be allowed in after I fit the whole thing in my mouth..."	
呆	dumbfounded	His mouth fell open dumbfounded when he woke up and found himself on top of a tree.	7	2181		ホウ	The first time I saw an Australian apricot tree (呆 vs. 杏) I was dumbfounded.	
喰	ingest	Ingest is a fancy word for what you do with your mouth as you eat.	12	2182		0	"Note: This is a colloquial word for ""eat"", so the formal keyword ""ingest"" might better be replaced with something like ""scoff"" or ""tuck in"", etc. Suggested story: ""Yeuk! I can see the food rolling around in your mouth when you scoff it like that!""."	
埴	clay	"This one rhymes: ""If you fights wiz Cassius Clay, you'll hit the soil, boy, straightaway!""."	11	2183		ショク	Clay is a soil that becomes anything straightaway with heat.	
坤	authochthonous	"While ""autochthonous"" can mean ""indigenous"" in ENGLISH, that is NOT one of the potential meanings of this character (thus, the majority of these stories will not help you with meaning). Rather, the kanji is ""autochthonous"" in the sense of being Earthly, mystic, and portentous (the ancient, primitive, sacred power of DIRT and SOIL). A vague, poorly-chosen keyword all around. Mantixen's story does the best job of conveying accurate meaning--> ""A monkey likes the earthy/autochthonous feel of soil""."	8	2184		コン	A monkey likes the earthy feel of soil.	
堆	piled high	"After our pre-Thanksgiving massacre, we piled high all the turkey corpses atop the soil of the farmyard."	11	2185		タイ	"During the Turkey Holocaust (this is what the animal kingdom calls Thanksgiving - they have really short memories and thus don't recall that it actually happens every single year), turkeys are killed en masse, and their bodies are piled high. To keep them from tumbling down, a pile of dirt is piled high right next to them to keep them standing upright so that they will be fresh when it is time to eat them."	
壕	dugout	"As they constructed the visiting team dugout, they removed a quantity of soil when there was an overpowering stench. Nobody will want to use this dugout!"	17	2186		コウ	A DUGOUT is a dry moat found around Japanese castles. The SOIL is arranged so as to OVERPOWER (or give the advantage to OVERPOWER) an attacking army. If dug in a low lying area it fills with water and becomes a moat (濠 moat (#2306)).	
垢	blemish	Big consternation in the court! A little bit of soil in the garden touched the empress' face and left a blemish there. Courtiers fainted left and right...	9	2187		コウ	The empress gets a soil mask at the spa to treat a blemish.	
坦	flat	I'm usually flat on the soil passed out at nightbreak.	8	2188		タン	"When the soil is flat, you can see the sun rise over the horizon from a long distance."	
埠	wharf	"He came to finding himself down at the wharf with soil all over his tuxedo. The maestro can only guess that he'd been drugged by some needle sharp dart, since the last thing that he recalled was feeling a prick on the bottom, before waking up at the wharf."	11	2189		フ	Note: Right side 阜 is large hill (#2928).	
填	stuff up	"In a hole in the ground, the body of the victim was placed. And then the killer stuffed it up so that the truth would not be found out, he hoped."	13	2190		テン	I stuffed up his mouth with dirt to keep the truth from coming out.	
堰	dam	"Soil, box, sun, woman: In Peru, they were constructing a dam and to this end, soil was gathered from the surrounds. During the excavations, they found a box, containing little statue of the sun woman (godess). A nice archeological find, but detrimental for the dam building efforts, since the work was to be halted."	12	2191		エン	"All the dams were built by the Army Corps of Engineers' Ladies' Auxiliary. So the WOMEN worked under the SUN all day, with a BOX full of DIRT on their shoulders, to & fro, building up the dirt wall that would become this mighty dam."	
堵	railing	A railing prevents museum patrons from getting soil on the voodoo dolls.	11	2192		ト	I was relieved to find my stolen lovedoll tied to some railing. She's a bit dirty but still good!	
嬰	suckling infant	The woman removes the two shells covering her breasts (for modesty) and then attaches the suckling infant. How very Little Mermaid...	17	2193		エイ	I see this as two suckling infants clamped onto their mother (woman) like shellfish when breastfeeding.	
姦	violate	Many women violate me at the same time. Then I woke up.	9	2194		カン	"To avoid being violated, three women cluster together in the women-only wagon of the train."	
妬	jealous	"The jealous woman bashed the brains in of the guy who betrayed her, with a stone."	8	2195		ト	Every woman wants a huge stone on her finger to make her friends jealous.	
婢	handmaiden	"Handmaiden's are usually quite lowly women, but this one is a special (just look at the way lowly is drawn)."	11	2196		ヒ	A handmaiden is a woman servant with the lowly job of burning pirated Chinese DVDs (rough copies of already lowly movies) http://technology.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/tech_and_web/article6730463.ece.	
婉	well finished	"To become well finished, young women often go to a finishing school at a posh address."	11	2197		エン	"When asking a girl out on a date, you are only well finished when you have her address and phone number."	
娼	harlot	"Harlots are women who make a lot of money, usually, so they or their pimps are quite prosperous. Look at all her bling bling, shining like more than two suns. Who says vice doesn't pay?"	11	2198		ショウ	Harlots are women who make a living selling themselves to prosperous men.	
妓	courtesan	"In the 平安時代（へいあんじだい）, the courtesans (women who lived in the royal courts) often stayed in the side portions of the palaces, the section that branched off the main building. Idea taken from illustrations in a copy of the Tale of Genji."	7	2199		ギ	"To be a successful courtesan, a woman must be able to branch out into many of the arts."	
娃	fair	The photographer took a picture of this fair woman framed by ivy.	9	2200		ア	"Come on, think of Rapunzel. That WOMAN was so FAIR, she was locked away. Only she used her IVY like FAIR hair to let her lover climb to her."	
姪	niece	"Little did you know, the woman who made you climax was your niece."	9	2201		テツ	"My niece is a WOMAN now, and can make herself CLIMAX."	
嫉	envy	If you go through women rapidly you will be the object of envy.	13	2202		シツ	"Ah, puberty ... the girl that starts her journey towards womanhood the most rapidly will become the subject of envy from all her classmates."	
嬬	mistress	"As any servant knows, a mistress who runs things well must be nature be a very demanding woman."	17	2203		ジュ	It is normally the woman who does the job around the home. A mistress is highly demanding. You can see her bossing her family around to do the chores while she does her leisure activities. Looks like she's doesn't have to be bossed to do anything.	
姥	aged woman	The woman version of an old man is an aged woman.	9	2204		ボ	You know an aged woman?! I know an old man. We should set them up. (Note: Be careful not to confuse with old woman (#804)).	
姑	mother-in-law	"According to Japanese traditions, daughters-in-law have to pay respect to the woman who is their mother-in-law, because they are older."	8	2205		コ	My mother-in-law is the OLDER version of my WOMAN on the left.	
姐	young miss	A young miss in a rich Japanese household is often treated with such care that she is a like a woman who is put on a shelf like an ornament.	8	2206		ソ	The young miss won a long of baby beauty pageants. A whole shelf is devoted to the prices she won.	
嬉	overjoyed	"Finally, I got a woman ... I have to just shriek and rejoice, I'm so overjoyed!"	15	2207		キ	Men simply rejoice. Women tend to take their emotions a bit further and become overjoyed.	
孕	expecting	"A woman says to me “I’m expecting – there’s a child in here (pointing to her stomach)” I put my ear to her stomach and suddenly the child punches me – I see the shape of its fist in the stomach wall. “Well, you might be expecting, but I certainly wasn’t expecting that” I reply."	5	2208		ヨウ	"Fist, child: The guy had only put his fist inside and now his girlfriend is expecting a child. ""How long ago did I have that business trip?"", he wonders."	
孜	assiduous	"Well, yeah, the kid's assiduous: he's got that taskmaster on his back all the time! What else would you expect?"	7	2209		シ	Assiduous children make assiduous taskmasters.	
宥	soothe	"It really soothes my mind that I possess a house. Now at least all my payments are going towards something solid, instead of just throwing it away as rent."	9	2210		ユウ	"My house is possessed by the ghost of Barry White, who often sings me songs to soothe me to sleep at night."	
寓	imply	"When you see Jiminy Cricket near a house, it will imply that Pinocchio isn't far off."	12	2211		グウ	"The talking cricket says, ""you've been spending a lot of time in the house lately,"" and you say, ""What is that supposed to mean?"", to which the cricket replies, ""I'm implying you need to get a job!""."	
宏	extensive	"During an extensive search of a murderer's house of horror, homocide detectives found an elbow body part by the side of another body. Surely there were even more victims than they imagined."	7	2212		コウ	"Thanks to Katsuo: BY ONE'S SIDE and ELBOW can be SUPERMAN (think of the George Reeve's SUPERMAN pose for a mental image). Well, that fortress of solitude is very EXTENSIVE. Would you expect SUPERMAN's HOUSE to anything less?"	
牢	jail	"For a cow used to free-grazing, being stuck in a house is equivalent to being in jail."	7	2213		ロウ	"Looking at the kanji 家, keeping pigs in the house was normal. But, if you instead kept a cow in the house, you would be sent to jail."	
塞	block up	The A/C wasn't making the house cold because the filters had been blocked up with dirt.	13	2214		ソク	"It was so cold (#1526), the pipes blocked up with ice. After removing the ice, we insulated them with soil."	
宋	Sung dynasty	The Sung dynasty was so-called because people kept trees in their houses and as a consequence birds sung in them.	7	2215		ソウ	The Sung dynasty needed to cut down a lot of TREES to make a lot of HOUSES. (the imperial dynasty of China from 960 to 1279; noted for art and literature and philosophy).	
宍	venison	"I was once served venison at home, but the only way I could eat it was to down a six pack first."	7	2216		ニク	"I told my friend the deer I kept in my house for venison was called ""roku"" (six). He asked if naming it didn't make me attached to it. I said no, because ""roku"" is also a way to say the kanji for deer."	
屠	butchering	Chucky from Child's Play was found butchering a poor victim with a flag pole.	11	2217		ト	Generals usually see their soldiers as mere puppets in their war game. These poor sods are given a flag and told to fight for their country. As if that would make good all the butchering.	
屁	fart	"You haven't smelled a fart like his! His were so bad, that when he cut one, they had to wave a flag to keep folks away. None compare to the farts that he farts."	7	2218		ヒ	At a fart contest each contestant holds up a flag whenever they fart so the judges can come over and compare it to the others.	
屑	rubbish	"You aren't supposed to throw an American flag out with the rubbish. The proper way to get rid of a flag is to burn it, shown here by holding a candle underneath it."	10	2219		セツ	尸ee a little on some body if you think they are rubbish.	
尻	buttocks	The baseball team stick flags in their buttocks and wave them at the opposing team to put them off.	5	2220		コウ	I wonder if this story will be flagged for saying i give her buttocks a score of 9.	
屡	frequently	A Japanese woman walking around waving an American flag probably sleeps with foreigners frequently.	12	2221		ル	Imagine the flag of Japan. I frequently go there for its tasty rice and to see its beautiful women.	
屍	corpse	"After meeting death, a flag covers the soldier's corpse."	9	2222		シ	Imagine the character Death (the shroud-wearing skeleton) carrying an armful of flags. He goes round at night sticking a flag in each corpse. (i.e. to distinguish it from those who are merely sleeping).	
屏	folding screen	"This folding screen looks quite pretty, with all the national flags printed on it, but folding and unfolding it is rather complicated. It looks more like a puzzle than a utility item."	9	2223		ヘイ	"Someone took an old fence (#1056), brushed the dirt off it and turned it into a folding screen."	
嵩	high-reaching	"High-reaching aspirations usually revolve around the mountain that is the tallest. For climbing, for descending, for just bring there - the thrill of it all."	13	2224		スウ	"People like Sir Edmund Hillary set very high-reaching goals, like being the first to climb Everest, the tallest mountain in the world."	
崚	rugged mountains	"The next step on the sentient rice-seedlings; journey, after their miraculous pull through (#2136) from being trapped: mountains in the distance, extremely rugged mountains, and nowhere to go next but through them."	11	2225		リョウ	When trying to cross RUGGED MOUNTAINS you'll feel like you have RICE SEEDLINGS for WALKING LEGS.	
峨	high mountain	"In this local folklore, the high mountain has a big ego for being the highest mountain and is therefore rather unkind to people who dare to climb it."	10	2226		ガ	"A drugged up high mountain. Those mountains that get high only think of themselves, their ego takes over. Drugs are a selfish pasttime."	
崖	bluffs	"Standing at the base of the bluffs I announce, ""I'm going to climb those ivy-covered cliffs, and then the mountain on top of them."" My friends don't believe me, ""He bluffs!"" they say."	11	2227		ガイ	The ivy-covered cliff we saw on the horizon (#157) ... the sheer beauty of the mountain that overlooks these bluffs is enough to make you want to swim for shore yourself!	
嶺	mountaintop	"This mountain lies exactly between two prefectures, so naturally there was a struggle about which prefecture had jurisdiction there. And would you believe it, one of them gained jurisdiction over the base, and the other over the mountaintop."	17	2228		レイ	"At the top of the mountain, Bill Clinton found an intern and said ""This mountaintop is my jurisdiction (#1405). I order you to give me head."" The intern replied, ""Come on Bill, hasn't this type of behaviour caused enough problems already?""."	
嵌	fit into	No way that sweet girl can fit those mountains of hers into an A-cup. They'll be severely lacking space. Too many sweets I guess.	12	2229		カン	"(from mantixen's) I was going to take some sweets on my climb up the mountain, but it wouldn't fit into my bag, so I lack them."	
嵯	rocky	"This is a very rocky mountain! In fact, it has the distinction of being one of the most rocky in the country."	13	2230		サ	The Rocky MOUNTAINS have the distinction (#554) of being the rockiest MOUNTAIN range.	
帖	quire	"The fortune teller tells me that in the future I will have my own quire. ""Is that choir as in 'group of singers', or quire as in 'sheets of paper'?"" I ask. She can't tell because her crystal ball is too misty, so I rush to the bathroom, grab a towel, and use it to wipe the crystal ball. Turns out to be quire as in 'sheets of paper', of course."	8	2231		チョウ	"(25 sheets of paper) -- the fortune teller orders a quire of paper but receives a quire of towels. She calls to complain, but customer service tells her, ""Why didn't you see it coming?""."	
幡	banner	"My favorite towel is one that says ""Who wants a turn?"" like its an advertising banner."	15	2232		マン	"When I go to gaming conventions, I always bring my banner: a simple towel with the dice logo on it. Let's roll!"	
幟	pennant	Many towels were waved and kazoos blown when the Cardinals won the pennant.	15	2233		シ	"Yep, it's a party alright. The kazoo fiesta noise is audible from far away, and look, they fashioned pennants out of towels to use as a signal flag for beckoning visitors in."	
庖	cleaver	The cleaver was found with the dismembered body wrapped up in a cave.	8	2234		ホウ	"The murder victim was killed by a a cleaver. Her body was found in a cave, wrapped up in plastic."	
廓	licensed quarters	"The very special tall child whom the city folks keep enclosed in their city walls has finally been granted the use of an abandoned cave for his licensed quarters. Hey, its better than sleeping in the open!"	14	2235		カク	"Meanings acc. to kanji dictionary: enclosure, quarter, large, empty, red-light district)//This city's red light district can be found in tall caves within the city walls. There the prostitutes have licensed quarters to sell their bodies."	
庇	overhang	"This overhang is really good against the warmth. Compared with other overhangs, this one makes you feel as cool as if you are in a cave."	7	2236		ヒ	This overhang has so much shade it's comparable to being in a cave.	
鷹	hawk	"Those wild goose scurry into the caves that have been worn into the side of the cliffs, all trying to avoid a hawk. The bird storming down on them for an easy feed."	24	2237		ヨウ	"CAREFUL: wild goose (#2150) contains ""cliff"", here we have ""CAVE""!"	
庄	shire	"In the Shire, hobbits used to live in caves. Nowadays their holes in the soil still look a little like caves."	6	2238		ショウ	"Remember at the end of the Lord of the Rings, when Saruman was found in the Shire trying to fill up all the hobbit's caves with soil? Or something like that."	
廟	tomb sanctuary	"With few visitors, the tomb sanctuary in the cave is only open in the morning."	15	2239		ビョウ	The tomb sanctuary of the Egyptian pharaohs is only open in the morning. At night they seal the cave to keep the spirits from escaping!	
彊	strengthen	"If you can't pull your bow all the way back, you need to strengthen yourself by eating a stack of pancakes and waffles."	16	2240		キョウ	I strengthened my bow skills by eating a double decker rice sandwich.	
弥	more and more	The bow dug more and more into the small of his back as he reclined on it. Will someone please tell the idiot to get up?	8	2241		ミ	"If I recline back, I can pull my bow open a little more and more."	
弛	loosen	The scorpion nibbled on the string of my bow and loosened it. Now I have to string the bow again!	6	2242		チ	"My grip on the bow loosened, and I felt myself slowly slipping away. The last thing I remember seeing was the scorpion quietly scuttling away from my trouser leg, where it has delivered it's poisionous blow."	
粥	rice gruel	Rice gruel gives you the strength to use two bows at once.	12	2243		イク	"Kill me now with 2 BOWS, I'm sick of eating RICE gruel."	
挽	lathe	"To stop workers losing fingers on the lathes, the company has decided to issue lucky rabbit's feet to its workers."	10	2244		バン	RABBIT FINGERS are also lucky - you can remove them from a RABBIT by using a LATHE.	
撞	bump into	If you bump into a juvenile he is bound to give you the finger.	15	2245		ドウ	"Juveniles are often unsure of how long their extremities actually are, because they're growing all the time. They often bump into things because their fingers are a centimetre or two longer than the last time they looked!"	
扮	disguise	"""How do you like my disguise?"" ""Umm... the fingers are only part of a disguise. You should really disguise the other parts of your body, too.. o.o"" (Imagine the guy is just wearing camouflage gloves or something along those lines.)."	7	2246		フン	"""Now part your fingers, and witness my latest disguise"" It might just work, your friend now appears completely invisible!"	
掠	pillage	Taking everything in the capital you can get your fingers on.	11	2247		リャク	"Think rape and pillage. The capital has been raided, and the women are all being forcibly fingered."	
挨	shove	"In the busy pub, one of the dart players shoved his dart into my elbow by accident when it nearly slipped out of his fingers."	10	2248		アイ	"Your fingers slip when someone's elbow shoves you, causing you to drop the dart you were about to throw. But as you can see, their elbow is very small, so you decide they're too weak to shove back."	
掴	clutch	"Reminds me of a Star Wars quote, Leia: ""The more you tighten your grip, Tarkin, the more star systems will slip through your fingers."" (i.e., the tighter you clutch, the more countries you'll lose)."	11	2249		カク	"In countries such as Japan and Australia, the clutch is operated by using the fingers on the left."	
捺	impress	"In Nara, they do not accept はんこ, in fact their seals are done by simply impressing fingers into hot melting wax (fingerprints are unique!)."	11	2250		ナツ	"In Nara, you impress wax seals with just your finger."	
捻	wrenching	"Ever try WRENCHING a bolt with just your FINGERS? Trust me, you'll WISH you had a wrench for WRENCHING to save your FINGERS."	11	2251		ネン	I have an unfortunate habit of wrenching off other people’s fingers when I pull a wishbone with them.	
掻	scratch	Insects on your crotch make your fingers want to scratch.	11	2252		ソウ	"Scratching with your fingers is a possible sign of a 蚤 flea (#2681) infestation. Even when they (the drops) are gone, the urge to scratch remains."	
撰	assortment	You reach into a bag of assorted lollies with your fingers and pull out two snakes stuck together.	15	2253		サン	"You can always find something from his assortment of stolen watches. Fingers, the thief, can pull back his sleeve and allow you to elect (without the road work) any of the watches from his extensive assortment."	
拭	wipe	Why carry a handkerchief? I wipe my nose finger-style.	9	2254		ショク	"If you are going to wipe your nose with your fingers, better do it in a grand style."	
揃	muster	You finally mustered up enough courage to point your finger at the bully in front of you and tell him what an *** he is. Hope you can run fast.	12	2255		セン	"When I muster up the strength to do something exercise-ish, I have me fingers out in front of me and do the usual stretches. Cracking the knucles and such..."	
捌	deal with	"If you deal with the Yakuza, you might get a finger separated."	10	2256		ハツ	"""I'll deal with you separately,"" said the teacher, pointing his finger."	
撹	churn up	My stomach starts to churn up if I try to count on my fingers how many kanji I still have to memorize.	15	2257		カク	"This kanji means churn up in the sense of throw into confusion. Picture using your finger to try to draw this kanji on your hand and not being able to remember, just throwing yourself further into confusion."	
摺	rubbing	Think of Braille – rubbing things with your fingers in order to learn.	14	2258		ショウ	"I learned, quite by accident, that by rubbing my fingers somewhere special, I felt great. 20 lears later, I'm still rubbing."	
按	press down on	Think of shiatsu. You press down on someone with your fingers to help them relax.	9	2259		アン	You help your girlfriend relax by pressing down on her back with your fingers.	
捉	nab	I felt a finger on my leg as someone tried to nab my wallet.	10	2260		ソク	"Fingers nabs Davy Jone's wooden leg: Argh! Bring me back me leg, ya scurvy dog!"	
拶	imminent	"The old lady said that there was a flood imminent, because her fingers hurt in the evening."	9	2261		サツ	The Dutch boy put his finger in the dam holding back imminent danger from flood waters until evening.	
播	disseminate	"I'm all used up for the day, so I disseminate turns to the remaining ladies with my fingers."	15	2262		ハ	"Means ""plant; sow"" When sowing seeds or planting flowers, the results will turn out better if you disseminate the seeds/plants with your FINGERS in TURN . A red flower here, then a blue flower, a red flower, then a blue flower, etc..."	
揖	interpretation	"For deaf people, whose ears do not function properly, the interpretation of speech is often attained by using their fingers in sign language, and pay close attention to the mouths of others."	12	2263		イツ	"I bow with hands clasped, my fingers holding the microphone (with an opening that's like an ear for receiving sound) after giving my own interpretation of the karaoke song."	
托	receptable	"Why are you holding that lock of hair, man? Are your fingers even clean? Go put that thing into a trash receptacle. No! Not your fingers, the lock. Receptacle seems to work...especially since receptable isn't a word."	6	2264		タク	"The keyword in the book is ""receptacle"" (which is an actual word unlike receptable). I picture a kidnapping demand where a finger and a lock of hair of the victim is placed into a receptacle and sent to the family."	
捧	dedicate (RTK3)	"DEVOTE (new rtk3 keyword). Think of the Yakuza. To show their DEVOTION to the clan, they must be DEDICATED enough to cut off their FINGERS if they fail a task."	11	2265		ホウ	Dedicated people who dedicate themselves to growing bonsai cornstalkes have to have very fine fingers to work the bonsai cornstalk.	Import:-duplicate Import:-same-Keyword
撚	twirl	"Bad guys in movies always twirl their moustache with their fingers, and that sort of thing."	15	2266		ネン	Twirling a baton is the sort of thing you only do with your fingertips.	
挺	counter for tools	The courts use their fingers as a counter for tools used in murder cases.	10	2267		チョウ	"A lawyer holds several blood stained screwdrivers in his fingers and asks,""Ladies and gentlemen of the court, how many tools do you see?""."	
擾	commotion	"A new dance, called the ""commotion"" where you move your fingers in a melancholy way. (Derived from ""The Locomotion"": Everybody's doin' a brand new dance now, Come on baby, do the Locomotion.)."	18	2268		ジョウ	There was a huge commotion in the state of Denmark when Hamlet cut off his fingers. He must have been really melancholic...	
捗	make headway	"""Come on people, the only way to make headway in this business is to let your fingers do the walking!"" bust out the yellow pages and dial as many numbers as possible, surely someone is a sucker for a cold call sell."	10	2269		チョク	"Thing from the Addams Family has difficulties in making headway because, well, he has no head. Only walking fingers."	
撫	petting	"I was petting my pet, but when I looked at my fingers I saw . . . nothingness – my pet had bitten them off."	15	2270		ブ	I pet my pet with my fingers so hard... he was reduced to nothingness.	
撒	sprinkle	Use your fingers to scatter sprinkles on top of your ice cream cone まく.	15	2271		サン	Japanese tradition of 豆撒き（まめまき） - I see a garden sprinkler scattering fingers.	
擢	outstanding	"My turkey suit, complete with actual feathers, was so outstanding that farmers tried to hunt me down with hatchets: I promptly gave them the finger."	17	2272		テキ	"His turkey costume was really outstanding: it was full of real turkey feathers, and he even managed to make convincing bird claws of his fingers."	
捷	spoils	"Someone tries to lay their fingers on your spoils, and you run after them hitting them with a broom as they run from you."	11	2273		ショウ	As my share of the spoils of war I grab a running-broom that has fingers (just like the one in Disney/Mickey Mouse/Fantasia). It runs round cleaning up with its broom and uses its fingers to press buttons etc and operate household appliances. But also like Mickey’s it gets out of control and spoils everything it touches. So much for the spoils of war.	
抉	gouge out	The penalty for gouging out someone's eyes is to have your fingers guillotined.	7	2274		ケツ	"Before they guillotine him they gouge out his eyes with their fingers, which is why we can't see eyes in this Kanji."	
怯	wince	The gambling addict's state of mind ... wincing as he realizes that everything he owns is gone.	8	2275		キョウ	"As they pull the batteries out of Data, we see him wince and then he's gone."	
惟	ponder	"Brain: ""I'm in a lucid state of mind. Pinky, are you pondering what I'm pondering?"" Pinky: ""Yes Brain, but how are we going to get the turkey up here?""."	11	2276		イ	The state of mind of a turkey is to ponder the meaning of life while waiting to be eaten come November.	
惚	infatuation	Infatuation is the state of mind that makes a knot form in your heart.	11	2277		コツ	Data instantaneously (#2431)忽 combusted when he first experienced infatuation.	
怜	quickwitted	The commando team under orders need to be quickwitted and are always in the right state of mind for action.	8	2278		レイ	"Data, orders: Commander Data is as quickwitted as they come. While Picard is still in the process of uttering an order, Data is already executing it!"	
惇	considerate	"The state of mind of the tall child whom receives all of the attention is often surprisingly considerate. They have known nothing but kindness in their life, and thus act the same in return!"	11	2279		シュン	A considerate state of mind is open to receive others' input.	
憧	yearn	A paedophile's state of mind is to yearn for juveniles.	15	2280		ショウ	"A juvenile's state of mind tends to go apeshit when they see something they yearn for. Usually involving jumping up and down, tantrums, and other bullshit. (Imagine giving them a big backhand across the face.)."	
恰	as if	"I was in a state of mind to ask my wife if some slinky outfit from the closet fit her. ""As if!"" she yelled, ""that belonged to your previous girlfriend!""."	9	2281		コウ	"If your state of mind is fit, it's as if the kanji learn themselves."	
恢	enlarge	He was in a terrible state of mind when his home that he was enlarging was consumed by a fire and everything he had build up was turned to ashes.	9	2282		カイ	"Imagine the state of mind of a person who takes some viagra, thinking it will enlarge his package, but somehow it reduces it to ashes instead."	
悌	respect for elders	"The state of mind of a younger brother has respect for elders, including you if you're the elder brother."	10	2283		テイ	"Data, younger brother: Commander Data had a younger, amoral brother (Lore). When they visited an old computer museum, Lore remarked that he could compute much faster than the machines on exhibition. That's when Data found it to be his duty to teach his brother respect for elders."	
湧	bubble up	"The courageous man who went into the water to save a drowning victim couldn't be seen, except by the air that bubbled up."	12	2284		ユウ	Bubble up the WATER and see who has the COURAGE to jump into it.	
澪	canal	The canals on Mars contain zero water.	16	2285		レイ	A canal is used to put water where there was zero.	
洸	glistening	Rays of sunlight on the water make for a glistening effect.	9	2286		コウ	"Compare with shimmering (frame 2880), where the rays of sunlight shimmer off the futon. Water is what's glistening in those rays. (helps to remember both kanji)."	
滉	bounding main	"You know you are deep in the water of a bounding main (deep body of water), when you look up and can no longer see the rays of the sun above you."	13	2287		コウ	"In calm waters, even the bounding main is limpid (#2446)晃."	
漱	gargle	"To gargle, put a bundle of medicine in your mouth with water and throw your head back as if in a yawn."	14	2288		ソウ	Gargle with salt water and bundle up if you have a sore thoat and lack medicine.	
洲	continent	"Australia is the only continent that is surrounded by water on all sides, yet is still a single state."	9	2289		シュウ	"If the borders of a state are all water, then it is more properly called a 'continent' instead. (For 州 state (#128), I think of the small-dash/big-dash alternating pattern that is used for state borders on some maps.)."	
洵	swirling waters	"For ten days, we watched the swirling waters, but it didn't seem like the water would rise in another tsunami."	9	2290		ジュン	"You have got a really, really plugged up bathtub - so plugged up, as a matter of fact, that when you get out of the bath, it takes an entire decameron for the gently swirling waters to go all the way down. You are really annoyed at this (it's gross, besides), so you get a tiny little sun and bound it up with twine, and lower it into the drain. It clears the clog right up, and the swirling waters zip right on down!"	
滲	seep	"We have a prettily shaped umbrella, but when it started to rain, water seeped through and three of our elbows got wet. So much for design over functionality."	14	2291		シン	"X-men movie scene where the senator SEEPS through the bars like WATER. You see all these ELBOWS (three of them) move in trying to grab him, but it's MYSTIQUE the SHAPE changer that catches him in her UMBRELLA."	
洒	rinse	"In the wild west everything was so dirty! With the limited water people could spare, a simple rinse was the best your clothes would get."	9	2292		シャ	Rinse empty whiskey bottles with water.	
沐	douse	"In the forest fire, they doused the trees with water to prevent more damage."	7	2293		モク	"You use water to irrigate (#2079) saplings. When it has become a tree, you need more. Then you have to douse it."	
泪	teardrops	Water drops from your eye are teardrops.	8	2294		ルイ	"泪橋 teardrops (#2294) ルイ, なみだ ... Parts: 氵, 目 ... Note: Tuttle 3a9.21 ... 涙tears (#1082), vs. 泪teardrops (#2294) (vs 淚 )? don't worry. They are the exact same word except when used in place names: On and Kun are the same . 涕 has the decency to have a different On-Yomi. But the Kun is the same. ..."	
渾	gushing	"As the Pharaoh's chariots tried to cross the Red Sea, gushing waters came and crushed them."	12	2295		コン	Picture yourself driving a chariot wildly down the street and knocking over all the fire hydrants. Water is gushing everywhere.	
沙	grains of sand	"Wet sand is simply sand but to see beautiful grains of sand, the water must be few."	7	2296		サ	Near the water is one of the few places you will find grains of sand.	
涜	blaspheme	"The church is selling holy water for the faithful, but if you dare to say its tap water, they'd tell you you were blaspheming."	10	2297		トク	"During the Wedding at Cana, the Son of God had some people come up to complain after he performed his miracle. ""This wine is terrible! Are you trying to sell me watered-down wine?"" He replied, ""It's a wedding, for God's sake, the wine is free, so stop complaining."" The dissatisfied guest retorted, ""Hey, don't blaspheme!"" Jesus Christ just rolled his eyes and, under his breath, uttered his own name in vain."	
淫	lewd	"The vulture is on top of the porter and appears to be commiting a lewd act, so I throw water over the pair of them."	11	2298		イン	Claw marks across the porters back from engaging in lewd acts in the shower. He is tipped well for carrying the lady's bags to her room.	
梁	roofbeam	What seemed to be water dripping from the wooden roofbeam was actually drops of blood dripping from a sword lodged in it.	11	2299		リョウ	"He cut down the tree with a sword to make a new roofbeam, but when he saw two drops lying on the tree, he assumed there was too much water in the wood and he left it to dry first."	
澱	sediment	"Mr. President is visiting the city of New Orleans, where the sediment is being cleared away that got there when the water rushed in during hurricane Katrina."	16	2300		デン	"After Mr. (and Mrs.) Smith blasted everything in sight with a missile launcher (see Mr. (#1805)), turning the whole world into sediment, nothing was left to shot at. The only thing left was WATER. So boring..."	
氾	widespread	It's a widespread belief that they cannot find fingerprints on a body that has been deposited in the water.	5	2301		ハン	It's a widespread belief that water takes away fingerprints.	
洛	old Kyoto	"Old Kyoto was once the capital, but if has fallen from grace and the flowers that used to decorate its houses have all disapeared."	9	2302		ラク	Each drop of water has been through old Kyoto at some point.	
汝	thou	"One of the modern commandments: ""Thou shalt not imagine wet women, dripping in their bathing suits""."	6	2303		ジョ	"""O Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art thou Romeo?"" says Juliet, her eyes all watery."	
漉	filter	"I filter my water using a deer. Sure I'm a naturalist, but you know what? The filtered yellow ""water"" tastes MUCH better!"	14	2304		ロク	"When you go out into the wilderness, you shouldn't drink fresh water no matter how clean and clear it looks. A deer could have just crapped in it a mile upstream. Lesson: Bring some kind of filter to filter your drinking water."	
瀕	on the verge of	Water dripping repeatedly on someone is enough to put them on the verge of insanity.	20	2305		ヒン	I was on the verge of wetting myself when she repeatedly showed me her...	
濠	moat	A moat is a water structure used against something potentially overpowering.	17	2306		ゴウ	"Australia was designed as a moat, surrounded by water, to keep out the overpowering forces of foreign nations."	
溌	spray	"If you discharge a water gun, it sprays water of course!"	12	2307		ハツ	"To spray is to have water discharged, from, for example, a hose."	
溺	drowning	Weak people placed in the water start drowning. Get some strength in those arms and learn how to swim!	13	2308		デキ	Weak swimmers drowning in the water.	
湊	port	They started playing music when the ship of the emperor came in sight over the water and was brought into port.	12	2309		ソウ	A band playing music on the water front for a heroic Navy ship returning to port.	
淋	solitude	"Picture yourself living in solitude on a tiny island. There are only two trees, and you keep getting splashed by water from sea waves."	11	2310		リン	A water-filled grove is a place of solitude.	
浩	abounding	"According to the book of revelations, abounding waters will be the first sign of the apocalypse!"	10	2311		コウ	Revelations into the benefits of drinking water are abounding these days.	
汀	water's edge	These spikes mark the water's edge in ancient times. Notice that the water level is actually much lower today.	5	2312		テイ	The water's edge is firmly nailed to the ground with robust spikes... through the water.	
鴻	large goose	A bird often found near creeks is the large goose.	17	2313		コウ	Ever ridden in a watercraft at an amusement park in the shape of a large goose bird?	
潅	souse	"When the pegasus attacked, we did what we could and soused it: everyone knows that a wet pegasus is a dead pegasus."	14	2314		カン	"Souse the pegasus with water, she likes it."	
溢	brimming	"Water is to the benefit of all live forms, so when a place has a lot of water, you soon see it brimming with life forms."	13	2315		イツ	(+brendanmacdonald) Water is brimming with health benefits!	
汰	cleanse	"I couldn't find any reference to this kanji as meaning cleanse. It seems to be most often used in the following compound 沙汰（さた）to mean affair. The other meanings seem to be closer to 'select' so maybe Heisig meant cleanse in the ethnic sense here.. I'm going to use the keyword ""selection"", as in natural selection. Story: natural selection first began in the water, and those that were too plump were selected out."	7	2316		タ	Water is used to cleanse a plump man's colon.	
湛	inundate	A tremendous amount of people inundate waterparks during summer vacation.	12	2317		タン	"After the success of Gatorade, Michael Jordan was inundated with requests to do water commercials."	
淳	immaculate	"I doubt it was an immaculate conception, I'm sure she received something 'watery' from someone or other."	11	2318		ジュン	Water you receive as a gift should be immaculate.	
潰	defile	"...Faramir and Frodo watched the tiny creature far below. ""Shall we shoot him?"" Faramir asked. ""This Gollum has defiled the waters of the Forbidden pond, looking for his Precious, and for that the penalty is death""..."	15	2319		カイ	Don't defile precious water.	
渥	moisten	"Before raging wildfires approach the town, homeowners will spray hose water on their roof to moisten the house as a preventative measure."	12	2320		アク	"When it's very dry, I sometimes moisten the wooden beams on the roof with water so that they won't completely dry out and crack open."	
灘	rough seas	Rough seas are a body of water that is most difficult to travel over.	21	2321		タン	Rough seas = difficult waters.	
汲	draw water	When you draw water you reach out and take the water from the well.	7	2322		キュウ	Reach out for water to draw water from the well.	
瀞	river pool	"Stare into the quiet water of the river pool, and maybe you'll see the river mermaids."	17	2323		セイ	A river pool is a little spot of WATER over on the edge where the water can be QUIET for a while before going back out into the roaring river to flow.	
溜	cumulation	"Water, detain: At the airport, crazy EU customs regulations made that every person carrying water bottles was detained and the water bottles themselves impounded. As you may imagine, in the customs office, there was quite a cumulation of water bottles."	13	2324		リュウ	"I look up at a cumulonimbus cloud and say “There must be a lot of water detained in that cumulonimbus, quite a cumulation”."	
渕	abyss	"Moses threw the golden calf into a nearby abyss, chased the offenders that had worshipped it with a saber, and cleaned the whole spot it had been standing with water as to wash away the sins of these people."	11	2325		エン	"In the abyss of hell, there is no water and Satan keeps watch with his sabre."	
沌	chaos	Chaos theory holds that a single EARTHWORM wriggling can cause huge flows of WATER all over the planet.	7	2326		トン	Earthworms go into chaos when there's no water.	
汎	pan	"Yeah, all our water is fairly mediocre, but if we work together in some pan-continental union, we can make some better water! As if."	6	2327		ハン	"This is pan- as in the prefix meaning ""all"". I think of Pangea as being a mediocre continent with water covering the rest of the planet. This was before it broke up into the first-class, well-distributed continents we got now."	
濾	strainer	"Prudence always splashes water over the strainer before & after using it. ""Just being prudent"", she says."	18	2328		ロ	"The strainer exercises prudence on the water, only letting the good water pass."	
濡	drench	Those who demand water will be drenched.	17	2329		ジュ	"When he demanded water from the waitress, she dumped the glass over his head, drenching his clothes."	
淀	eddy	"If you get caught in an eddy, the water seems determined to pull you in."	11	2330		テン	"An eddy is created when water determines it doesn't want to just ""go with the flow""."	
涅	fabrication	The greatest fabrication ever told was that God made the water and the earth in only one day.	10	2331		ネツ	This kanji should mean black soil. It is is used for Buddha's death and nirvana (涅槃 (ねはん)). Story: Fabrication of black soil. Use water to wash away other colours and and dry it in the sun (sun over soil).	
釜	cauldron	Your father uses his legs to stop himself from being put in a metal cauldron.	10	2332		フ	"Whilst on holiday, my father was captured by cannibals and put in a metal cauldron."	
斧	hatchet	"Father is sitting on top of an axe, and when I ask why he says, “Axe? It’s a hatchet, and I’m trying to hatch it”."	8	2333		フ	The father axe giving birth to baby hatchets. There is a role reversal in axe families.	
爺	grandpa	Father!!! My Father exclaimed when he saw my grandpa again. [exclamation (#2680)].	13	2334		ヤ	"My grandpa, the father of my father, often puts his ear agains the city walls to hear what's going on. Well, Alzheimer..."	
猾	sly	The sly criminal gave a skeleton to the pack of wild dogs chasing him.	13	2335		カツ	"Sly fox thought he could outsmart the wild dogs, but all they found of him was his skeleton."	
猥	indecent	The indecent man made even the pack of wild dogs apprehensive (#2569).	12	2336		ワイ	"An indecent video featuring a helpless victim taking hairpins in his brain while a pack of wild dogs tears him from limb to limb, has generated calls for compulsory censorship of the internet."	
狡	cunning	You have to have cunning to mingle with a pack of wild dogs and get away unharmed.	9	2337		コウ	A pack of wild dogs mingle together and perform cunning-lingus.	
狸	racoon dog	A raccoon dog joined the pack of wild dogs as their computer-literate otaku member with circles around his eyes.	10	2338		リ	The racoon dog was only allowed to join the pack of wild dogs because his computer owned.	
狼	wolf	"I don't know if ""All (wild) dogs go to heaven,"" but I think this wolf will, because he has a halo."	10	2339		ロウ	"Pack of wild dogs, halo: In the pack of wild dogs, there is a prophesy. The wild dog that is born with a halo surrounding it will eventually turn into a wolf and lead the pack of wild dogs to victory over mankind."	
狽	flustered	The pack of dogs got all flustered when they tried to open the shellfish with their snouts.	10	2340		ケン	"The shellfish flustered the fishermen by pretending to be a pack of wild dogs. ""woof woof, grrrrrr""."	
狗	pup	"Mother dog: “I don't like our pup hanging around with that pack of wild dogs because he picks up all sorts of bad phrases.” Father dog: “Don't worry, he's only a pup – it's just a phrase he's going through”."	8	2341		ク	"""He encountered a pack of dogs"" sounds like a scary phrase, until you mention they were all puppies."	
狐	fox	A pack of dogs chases a fox who has stolen a melon! Must be a vegetarian fox...	9	2342		コ	"In Japanese folklore the FOX is known for changing shape. This one was being chased by a PACK OF WILD DOGS and passing a garden, changed into a MELON to hide."	
狛	a-un	From the pack of wild dogs only white ones are chosen to be a-un (to guard the temple).	8	2343		ハク	Lion-like wild dogs that show their white teeth to anyone who approaches the Shinto shrine.	
狙	aim at	"When her home was invaded by a pack of dogs, the little girl climbed on the shelf and aimed various items at the dogs below."	8	2344		ソ	I think the dogs purposely aim at your shelves to deal the most damage.	
獅	lion	"In ""The Lion King,"" Scar was the expert who did all the scheming, and the three hyenas were his pack of wild dogs that did most of the dirty work."	13	2345		シ	The pack of wild dogs admire the lion as an expert hunter.	
狒	baboon	"The hunter employs a pack of dogs to hunt baboons, which he sells to zoos for a lot of dollars."	8	2346		ヒ	Baboons like to taunt wild dogs by dangling their dollar sign chains from trees just out of their reach (and occasionally mooning them with their red butts).	
莨	tobacco	"If you smoke these tobacco flowers, you'll end up sporting a halo sooner rather than later."	11	2347		ロウ	"If you smoke these tobacco flowers, you can blow funky smoke halos (rings)."	
茉	jasmine	"If you know someone called Jasmine, then just imagine yourself sticking a flower in her extremity."	8	2348		マツ	"The jasmine flowers are exceptionally strong scented, and you can smell it the whole day if you rub them on an extremity of your body, like a hand."	
莉	hawthorn	"Thanks to Nathaniel Hawthorne, the hawthorn flower is now profitable."	10	2349		リ	A hawthorn is a flower that stands in the way of profit as it has to be taken out of the wheat fiels by farmers.	
苺	strawberry	"The strawberry plant is one that mothers really like. Not particularly for its flowers, but for the fruit of course, so they can make fresh strawberry pies."	9	2350		バイ	"Most people eat the fruit of the strawberry plant, but your mother eats the flowers."	
萩	bush clover	The bush clover is a special flower which was dedicated to bush when he won the presidency in Autumn.	12	2351		シュウ	Bush clover flowers in autumn.	
藝	technique [old]	"Its the oldest technique in the book. When surrounded by the evil rice seedling forces (they have gathered all around the ground around you), you dispense a cloud of rising smoke from your feet, and disappear, leaving only flowers behind."	19	2352		ゲイ	The [old] technique for making a rising cloud of flowers was misused by round men to get a woman's legs caught in ivy.	
薙	trim	Get a pheasant (#2584) to trim your flowers for you.	16	2353		テイ	Pheasant 雉 under glass with flower trimmings as garnish. Mmmm!	
蓑	straw raincoat	"Looking for a job at a florist during bad weather, I was forced to wear my pauper's straw raincoat. Predictably, I was declined at every flower shop I found."	13	2354		サ	"Flower, decline: After your flowers have declined (i.e., lost their bloom), you can always use the remains to weave a straw raincoat. It's all about recycling these days..."	
萎	numb	"Oh, the committee's in for a surprise: I put some nightshades into their drinks. They'll be numb for sure, probably worse."	11	2355		イ	"The keyword numb makes no sense. I choose 萎む（しぼむ）""to fade away"". A girl lies in a wheat field at the same time every day. A photo is taken every day showing this scene and a time lapse video shows the wheat growing through the year until the wheat is tall and the top sprouts to look like its flowers. At this point, the girl can no longer be seen in the photos and she fades away."	
苔	moss	Flowers can be seen on the pedestal covered with moss.	8	2356		タイ	The flowers you can see on old pedestals when you visit the ruins in Greece are moss in fact.	
蕩	prodigal	"When the prodigal son returned, he was greeted with flowers and hot water for tea by his mum."	15	2357		トウ	"The prodigal son thought he was going to be in hot water when he went home after wasting his family's money, but instead they greeted him with flowers."	
蔽	cover over	You cover over the shredder with flowers when the FBI comes a-knockin'.	16	2358		ヘイ	The taskmaster arranges flowers to cover over the rags she makes us clean with.	
蔓	tendril	The alien plant from outer space flowered and started drawing mandala's on the ground with its tendrils as a way of communication.	14	2359		マン	If you show a mandala to a flower it will cross its tendrils into the lotus position.	
蓮	lotus	"A lotus can either be a flower, or else something that takes you along (the car make)."	12	2360		レン	"Way too easy! Lotus, as in the really expensive, fast car. Whenever I want to take someone somewhere (連れる）, I make sure to rent a Lotus so that I can arrive to pick them up in style. I'm a great customer of the local car rental shop, so they always make sure to give me a flower when I pick up my Lotus."	
芙	lotus flower	"[+woelpad] In a certain culture, there is a ritual carried out when a girl is quite young (young enough, in fact, that they do it before they are considered a woman in that culture - for the same reason that some cultures do not name a baby until they are sure it will live) - she must go on a vision quest for a lotus flower and look inside it to see the face of her husband - then report back.. Imagine a poor flower girl's dismay when she looks into the lotus flower and sees the face of Homer Simpson!."	7	2361		フ	There's a popular myth amongst flower girls that the face of their future husband is hidden inside a lotus flower.	
蓉	lotus blossom	Those little flower buds contain a whole lotus blossom when they grow bigger.	13	2362		ヨウ	"Flower, contain: 'Lotus Blossom' is the stripped down version of a software package tailored to the needs of flourists: Lotus Flower (lotus flower (#2361)). However, the software still contains the most important functionality of the original version."	
蘭	orchid	"The orchid thief tries to steal exotic flowers from the east, only to be stopped customs at the departure gate * 蘭 【らん】orchid."	19	2363		ラン	The Asian lesbians are partial to this flower because it reminds them of their favorite classic video game character: B. Orchid.	
芦	hollow reed	"You must play a tune using a hollow reed, to open the secret door hidden beneath the flowers."	7	2364		ロ	"Ancient superstition requirs you to adorn your door with hollow reed and flowers, but nobody knows the purpose anymore."	
薯	yam	"The signature flower of Ireland: the yam! Speaking of which, how are yams different from potatoes?"	17	2365		ショ	A yam has a signature flower that differentiates it from a sweet potato.	
菖	iris	Only prosperous people (picture someone with a lot of bling) can afford to have iris flowers in the house regularly. They're too expensive for daily use.	11	2366		ショウ	"You become so prosperous selling flowers (irises) you buy Van Gogh's famous painting ""Irises"" and hang in in your flower shop."	
蕉	banana	"Like the fruit itself, banana flowers look charred as they age."	15	2367		ショウ	Charred bananas on a bed of flowers are a delicacy that stir up images of a tropic island.	
芯	wick	"My favorite are heart shaped candles that smell like sweet flowers. The trick is to find one with a thick wick, they give off the most flower scent (but burn the quickest)."	8	2368		シン	Giving a girl flowers is like lighting the wick to her heart.	
蕎	buckwheat	"""Buckwheat's been shot! Buckwheat's been shot!"" At his funeral, attended by the rest of Our Gang, Buckwheat is placed in his coffin covered by flowers. An angel is also present, and says ""Its O-tay Buckwheat, you have been invited up to heaven!""."	15	2369		キョウ	Grain from the buckwheat plant can be used for some angelically tasting cakes.	
蕗	butterbur	Butterbur flowers can be seen along the path.	16	2370		ロ	"A Butterbur is a plant, but also, in LOTR, Butterbur is the name of the owner of the Prancing Pony. The hobbits met him on their path to Mount Doom."	
藍	indigo	Indigo flowers have to be overseen because they are often picked for their beauty.	18	2371		ラン	"Traditionally, 青 blue (#1534) could be used to describe blue OR green. However, two kanji that describe the hues specifically are 藍 and 緑. This kanji is the ""blue"" counterpart of green (#1371). Story: The overseer, master of the slaves, wore a cloak dyed with indigo, and flowers in his hair."	
茄	eggplant	Eggplant is a low カロrie flower (thanks Peppi).	8	2372		カ	An epplant is a flower with almost no 加ries...	
苛	bullying	"""How many flowers can I stuff in your nostrils? Well I'm just gonna have to go and see."" Bullying at its worst!"	8	2373		カ	"Flowers, you ask if they can feel pain, do you? ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ They sure -can-!! ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^ ^stomp^!!"	
蔭	behind the scenes	"Behind the scenes, in the shady areas, they trade various flowers: oh, yeah, gather 'round the good stuff!"	13	2374		イン	"Another Heisig RTK3 fail. I'm going to use ""owing to"" as the keyword -- it's mostly used in 御蔭で (thanks to you). Thanks to you, I was even able to grow flowers in the shade, no easy task."	
蓬	wormwood	"Wormwood brings very, very vivid and hallucinogenic dreams. You eat some of the intoxicating flowers of the wormwood with your girlfriend...and in your high state of mind, decide that it would be a good idea to do it in the bushes on the side of Mario Kart Road. Suddenly, in the middle of it, she starts tripping out, and runs through the bushes into the middle of the track, while they are racing...and is killed. Imagine waking up from that dream...or was it a dream? Sticks for me anyway."	14	2375		ホウ	You bring a wormwood flower to a tryst (#2417) for the bitter parting at the end.	
芥	mustard	Mustard has a lot of flavor jammed in to its flowers.	7	2376		カイ	Mustard is a plant that jams in all its taste into its mustard seeds.	
萌	germinate	You need a lot of bright light to germinate flowers.	11	2377		ホウ	"If there is one thing those nasty german's hate its bright, happy flowers."	
葡	grape	"Grapes are totally a conspiracy, I'm telling you. They're pretty little plants with flowers that grow in clusters, and they are sweet, I know, but...Bound up in each little grape (the skin is like a wrapping) is a tiny RFID tag that the government uses to spy on you. That's why they sell them in such large quantities for so cheap - if you ""pass"" a few of them out, no matter - odds are that at least one will stay inside you. They especially push them on kids."	12	2378		ブ	My offspring ate all the grapes off the grape vine (#2379)!	
萄	grape vine	"""I heard it through the grape vine""' using a pair of tin cans bound together to form a 糸電話 hidden amongst the flowers."	11	2379		ドウ	"I WRAPPED a large tin can (#1965) to a grape vine, under the FLOWERS of the grape vine, so that grapes fall directly into the tin can (#1965) when they are ripe."	
蘇	resurrect	Fish are used (as fertilizer) to resurrect your wheat to a flowering state.	19	2380		ソ	Famous resurrection: Jesus. There's the fish and loaves of wheat bread he's got under his arms and flowers in his hair.	
蕃	grow wild	"First the flowers grow up, but if you aren't attentive, they have a tendency to grow wild, playing dice out in the garden to kill time. A bad seed, indeed. Flowers grown wild!"	16	2381		バン	"Some kids playing the board game Jumanji throw the dice, and as a result, flowers suddenly begin to grow wild all around them."	
苓	cocklebur	"A truly invasive parasite, the cocklebur is a flower that attaches itself to its namesake and proceeds to order the host around, the poor guy."	8	2382		レイ	"When cocklebur flowers get stuck in your socks and shoelaces while bushwalking, you have to order everyone to stop and wait while you pick them out."	
菰	rush mat	Orphans sleep on the flowers of a rush mat.	12	2383		コ	"The poor orphans took to injecting 'flowers' (poppy variety), and lay Knocked Out (KO) on the rush mat floor of the orphanage."	
蒙	darken	"Flower, crown, one, sow: Each year, just before Christmas, one sow is selected among many to wear a crown adorned with flowers. Unknowing of her fate, there is a party in her honor that evening. Near the end, the lights suddenly darken and a lot of noise can be heared. When the lights go on again, the sow has been slaughtered and is ready to be baked for Christmas dinner."	14	2384		モウ	"Miss Piggy has entered the Miss Universe pageant. Only one sow will get the crown, when the lights darken, Miss Piggy accepts the flowers as she is announced the winner!"	
茅	grassy reed	"There are two methods for swimming up on your enemy unnoticed. A ninja using a grassy reed, making sure the flower is first removed, will approach stealthily. A warriors scabbard, once the halberd is removed, can also substitute for a breathing tube in a pinch."	8	2385		ボウ	"To prevent the weed from spreading, you must cut the grassy reed with a halberd before it flowers.　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　http://www.flickr.com/photos/wasatyu/168795205/."	
芭	plantain	"A plantain is a flowering fruit that looks kind of like a banana, and of course bananas look sort of like a comma, so you might even say that they have a sort of comma-design."	7	2386		バ	Southern cities in Europe often have plantains for street decoration. The light filtering through these plants makes for a nice light mosaic on the streets.	
苅	mow	You reap what flowers you mow. (thanks synewave).	7	2387		ガイ	"Before you mow the lawn, first quickly reap any flowers growing it, otherwise they'll just go to waste."	
蓋	lid	The lid of this dish is gone! Now the whole room smells of the flowers that were used in the cooking.	14	2388		ガイ	The magic lid trick: you put flowers in the dish and cover them up with the lid. Then you lift and the flowers are gone!	
葱	onion	"The onion is a plant that has such spicy fumes, that you have to cry as if your heart is in a double knot."	12	2389		ソウ	The ONION is a type of FLOWER (bulb) that makes you INSTANTANEOUSLY cry a DROP of tear. Just remember the DROP goes on the KNOT.	
蔑	revile	"They gays were reviled by society, so they put flowers above their eyes and marched around."	13	2390		ベツ	"In Northern Ireland, bitter religious groups revile their opponents by marching defiantly under their very eye, holding flowers that symbolize their beliefs."	
葵	hollyhock	Hollyhock loved to suck cock. With a flower in her hair she would lead you into a teepee and let you experience heaven.	12	2391		キ	The hollyhock is a flower that can grow as large as a teepee. It almost reaches to heaven.	
葺	shingling	"When shingling with flowers, they can often block up your mouth and ears unless you wear the proper safety gear."	12	2392		シュウ	"Flower, deaf: The deaf guy was shingling the roof of his house with flowers (ecohouse). Being deaf was an advantage since he didn't hear the comment of his neighbours."	
蕊	stamen	A male flower attracts many hearts with its stamen.	15	2393		ズイ	This flower's stamen is so manly that it has three hearts.	
茸	mushroom	"My mother used to joke that if I didn't wash my ears properly, mushroom plants would be growing out of them."	9	2394		ジョウ	"How could Mushroom be flower/ear??? It makes no freakin' sense! 　http://www.flickr.com/photos/fotofilo/2202580888/　　　　　　　Oh, O.K.. Well, then maybe it could be."	
蒔	sowing	All it takes is time to get flowers after sowing seeds.	13	2395		シ	After sowing seeds it will take TIME before FLOWERS grow.	
芹	parsley	"The axe murderer glares at his flower garden victims ""First Parsley, Sage, Rosemary, and Thyme!""."	7	2396		キン	Cooking for Cannibals: Sprinkling a freshly chopped parsley flower onto your axe before cutting up those helpless victims is a great way to add a little zest to your dishes.	
苫	thatching	The thatching of the old thatched roofs in rural Japan often has FLOWERS growing out of it when it's gotten weathered. So you can pluck them and use them like tea leaves to tell your FORTUNE.	8	2397		セン	The fortuneteller wants the thatching of his roof done with flowers instead of reeds.	
葛	kudzu	"Flower, siesta: The muchacho was not careful. He passed the warning signs and decided to hold a siesta in the kudzu field. The kudzu grew so fast, he was completely covered by it in a few hours and not able to escape. Now, the kudzu flowers mark his grave."	12	2398		カツ	The muchacho takes a siesta under the flowers of the kudzu.	
蒼	pale blue	"The godown was filled with pale blue flowers, probably some drug..."	14	2399		ソウ	"If you give her pale blue flowers, she'll godown on you every time."	
藁	straw	"When a giant drinks a cocktail, he needs a straw of large proportions. He hollows out a tall tree for the straw, and sticks a giant flower on the rim of his drink."	17	2400		コウ	"Story of three little pigs. First one built a house out of straw but it got blown down. Second one built a house out of flowers but it got blown down. Third one built a tall house out of wood. It was so tall, when the wolf blew it it fell back on the wolf, killing him instantly. The end."	
蕪	turnip	"Turnip flowers? Gross, but at least it's better than nothing to eat."	15	2401		ブ	Turnips just taste like nothing to me.	
藷	sweet potato	The sweet potato is a plant that can be used in various dishes quite well.	18	2402		ショ	"The sweet potato is a plant that has various names. (So don't get it confused with ""yam"")."	
薮	quack	The idiot savant was thought to be a quack because he couldn't help but count the number of flowers he saw.	16	2403		ソウ	"I don't even know where Heisig got this keyword from. Using ""thicket"" instead: Picture a thicket with a large number of flowers."	
蒜	garlic	"In the temple were two altars. One of them had the usual array of fl0wers, but the other was adorned with garlic, so that the locals could pray to keep the vampires out."	13	2404		サン	The Vampire approaches - You take out a clove of garlic 2 show him you mean business.	
蕨	bracken	Bracken is a flower that grows on cliffs and resembles a fish spine lacking stability.	15	2405		ケツ	"After eating all the BRACKEN FLOWERS on the CLIFF, the MOUNTAIN GOAT belts out a huge YAWN and takes a nap. Unfortunately he never wakes up as the BRACKEN is highly carcinogenic to mountain goats...."	
蔚	grow plentiful	"This reminds me of the old Peter, Paul and Mary anti-war song, ""Where have all the flowers gone?"" The final verse talks about the graveyards of military officers being the place where flowers grow plentiful."	14	2406		ウツ	Military officers make for good fertilizer. So after a war the flowers in the military officer's graveyard grow plentiful.	
茜	madder red	Madder red is an extract from a flower which was used as fake blood in western films.	9	2407		セン	Madder red is a colouring agent that is acquired out of the roots of plants that grow in the west.	
莞	candle rush	"The candle rush doesn't bloom often, but when it does, the flowers must be perfect."	10	2408		カン	"On valentines day (a.k.a. the candle rush), people are rushing to buy candles and the perfect flowers for their lover. Of course they do this all with a smile 莞爾【かんじ】として."	
蒐	collector	Debt collectors will even hustle ghosts for the flowers on their bodies' graves.	14	2409		シュウ	"This demon is a bit of an oddball, he's a collector of rare flowers, most of the time you can seem him trawling the graveyards looking for species that he doesn't yet have."	
菅	sedge	"Sedge is a flower (plant) that looks like grass, much like bureaucrats look a lot like real humans."	11	2410		カン	The bureaucrats wanted all the sedge plants in the district counted. Whatever will they think of next...	
葦	ditch reed	As soon as Iris decided to ditch reed she took off the locket he gave her and tossed it along with the corsage into the nearest ditch. Iris is quite a bitch to ditch reed on the night of the prom!	13	2411		イ	The lost locket was found between the flowers of the ditch reed.	
迪	Way	"Imagine a trail of brussel sprouts along a road. You follow it, picking up each sprout and eating it as you go along. Eventually, after the last sprout, you find your reward – a milky Way."	7	2412		テキ	A road magically sprouts up to show the chosen ones onto the Way.	
辿	track down	"When you're following someone along a road high atop a mountain, it is easy to track them down, since all tracks lead down."	5	2413		テン	"Despite travelling all the mountain roads and paths, no one could track down the Yeti."	
這	crawl	Some of those amateur marathon runners at the end seem merely to crawl on the road instead of running. They truly need words of encouragement.	9	2414		シャ	"There are words written on the road, but you have to crawl along to read them: 'If...you...can...read...this...you...look...silly...'."	
迂	detour	"Due to potatoes in the road, there was a detour."	5	2415		ウ	"A truck had spilt its load of potatoes on the road, forcing us to make a detour."	
遁	elude (RTK3)	"It really eludes me why we have two kanji with the same keyword... this one and deviate/elude (#1973). But lets intertwine their stories: The rabbit, who eluded capture (deviate/elude (#1973)) on the road, was finally caught when someone threw a shield over it."	11	2416		トン	"The Spartan had to block the road to stop the advancing enemy army, but he tried to shirk his duty and threw away his shield. That's suicide."	Import:-duplicate Import:-same-Keyword
逢	tryst	"Going out on the road to use a pointy (see my comments in 峰 summit (#1562)) part of my anatomy, is called a tryst."	9	2417		ホウ	"While I was having a tryst with my secret lover on the road, I had to quickly run towards the bushes with my walking legs, because my husband suddenly appeared."	
遥	far off	"On the long long road through the desert, far off you can see a condor flying..."	11	2418		ヨウ	"The condor might seem like its far off in the distance now, but if you don't start running down the road you could be dinner."	
遼	remote (RTK3)	"(From astridtops) Faraway (2nd edition keyword) from civilisation, there are no camping sites, so you can see people in a pup tent near the road doing some wild camping instead."	14	2419		リョウ	"[+Katsuo] In remote areas you can pitch your pup tent in the road, as there is no traffic. To disambiguate 悠 permanence/remote (#958) & 遼 remote (#2419), recall that 悠久 [ゆうきゅう] distinctly implies permanence, while a pup tent is by definition and design a temporary structure, particularly if it's pitched on a road."	Import:-duplicate Import:-same-Keyword
逼	pressing	"When the wealthy go on the road, they always pretend to be pursuing pressing matters, so they speed along in their big BMW's."	11	2420		フク	Those with wealth speed down the road as if they have some pressing matter to attend.	
迄	until	Beg in the road until you get what you want.	5	2421		キツ	"""I'm going to sit here by the side of the road, in front of the government building and beg until they give me a pension"", the war veteran said."	
遜	modest	"My parents aren't at all modest about their grandchildren, at every opportunity they take them on the road showing them off to their friends!"	12	2422		ソン	"He wasn't at all modest when telling us about his grandchildren - ""They're all on the road to success"" he said."	
逗	standstill	The negotiations had reached a complete standstill. To try and get things moving again the meeting table was placed in the middle of a busy road! That should do the trick!	9	2423		トウ	"I ripped a huge bean fart, bringing our road trip to a standstill."	
郁	cultured	The most important sign of a cultured area in ancient times was the possession of city walls. Anyone who has ever played Civilization knows that...	8	2424		イク	This cultured gentleman possesses a part of the city walls of old Rome.	
鄭	courtesy	A St. Bernard balances a bottle of horned whiskey on his nose to get it over the city walls as a courtesy to his exiled master.	14	2425		テイ	"The 酋 chieftain (#2906) and his St. Bernard practice common courtesy at the city walls: Every newcomer is kissed ardently. The women by the chieftain, the men by the dog."	
隙	chink	"There was only one chink in his plan. Even standing atop the highest pinnacle, standing above even the sun, the little man was still just as little as when he was under the sun."	13	2426		ゲキ	"Man those little chinks can do anything! They were the first to build rockets, and by launching one off the top of the highest pinnacle in China, one little chink was the first to ride above the sun, and see all the little chinks below!"	
隈	nook	Those apprehensive when they reach the pinnacle often find a nook to hide in.	12	2427		ワイ	"On the pinnacle of the secret government organisation, every nook and cranny of the pinnacle is under government control, even the ricefields. You can't even drop a hairpin there without being noticed."	
憑	possessed	"I entered the stable and felt an icy chill. Yes, that horse is possessed and the only way to deal with it is a stake in the heart!"	16	2428		ヒョウ	"The frozen horse still had a heart beat, it must be possessed!"	
惹	attract	You have to be young at heart to attract the opposite sex.	13	2429		ジャク	Take just one look at the junior idol video industry (or don't!) in Japan to understand how the young attract the hearts of the Japanese. ;-).	
悉	without exception	"Without exception, the heart of every hunter starts beating like crazy as he comes upon the tracks of an animal."	11	2430		シツ	If you get addicted to playing dice (番）without exception you will end up losing your rice fields (田） so take my warning to heart.	
忽	instantaneously	His heart got tied in a knot and he died instantaneously.	8	2431		コツ	"Instead of Blood Clot, think of Blood KNOT, where if you get a Blood KNOT that goes to your HEART, you will die INSTANTANEOUSLY."	
惣	firstborn son	"The caveman, introducing his firstborn son: ""And this is thing with heart. Come yesterday from woman's stomach.""."	12	2432		ソウ	"The firstborn son gets everything his heart desires. Historically, the firstborn son inherited the family fortune and title if any."	
愈	in the nick of time	Nick XXX needs a heart transplant quick. He goes to a meeting of butchers where one of them is about to chop up an ideal heart. Nick snatches away the heart from under the butcher’s knife – just in the nick of time. (note: replace XXX with a Nick you know).	13	2433		ユ	The guy who had a heart attack at the butcher's meeting was saved in the nick of time.	
恕	sensitive	"He's very sensitive about that sculpture, as it captures the likeness of the woman of his heart."	10	2434		ジョ	"To tell if someone is sensitive, first make a likeness of their heart. Then observe them while you poke the heart, stick needles in it, etc. If the person reacts, then that means they are sensitive."	
昴	overarching	"In this astrological tempel, a sun is depicted, overarching the Sign of the Hare."	9	2435		コウ	When the sun shines during the sign of the hare the hares go mad and have an overarching desire to jump over arches.	
晋	progress	"The churches teach that if we eliminate horniness as a universal trait, we can make progress as a society."	10	2436		シン	"Thinking of “The Pilgrim’s Progress”, imagine the pilgrim is stuck outside the universe 普, trying to get in. But the universe is surrounded by horns which block his path. Once he removes the horns from the universe, then he can make progress."	
曖	equivocal	The sun's love is equivocal: it warms yet burns us.	17	2437		アイ	"曖昧。 On a sunny day, a guy professes his love to a girl he admires. But she gives him the common equivocal response, ""Let's just be friends.""."	
晟	aglow	"When the sun comes up and sets the sky aglow, night turns into day."	11	2438		セイ	The SUN TURNS the sky aglow.	
暈	halo	"My halo is as bright as the sun, and is actually made from a wheel I pulled off a chariot."	13	2439		ウン	"The sun, high above us, was according to ancient Greeks the chariot of a god, and the halo of this chariot are the rays of the sun."	
暉	glitter	"Every day, the chariot of the god glitters as it moves from from east to west."	13	2440		キ	"Garry Glitter (British 70's glam rock star) is starring in a remake of ""Ben Hur"" and they are now filming the famous chariot race scene. Somehow, a reporter from the Sun (British tabloid) newspaper has got on the set and is running alongside Glitter’s glittering chariot, trying to interview him."	
旱	dry weather	"Dry weather is of course good drying weather, so everyone puts their clotheslines out under the sun."	7	2441		カン	Excessive SUN has caused DRY weather.	
晏	clear skies	"Under the sun and the clear skies, you can really relax."	10	2442		アン	"When there are clear skies above you, you can relax under the sun."	
晨	morrow	"The ancient villain in the Bruce Lee movies said to Bruce: ""In the morrow, when the sun is high in the sky, I will feed you to my pet crocodiles""."	11	2443		シン	Bruce Lee waits for the sun of the morrow to begin a showdown.	
晒	bleaching	"In the Old West, the sun was the only method for bleaching hair."	10	2444		サイ	"Sun, west: The Japanese like to bleach their hairs until these shine in the sun. It has to do with their obsession for the West."	
昧	obscure	Something that is obscure has not yet been brought before the light of day.	9	2445		マイ	"'Can't you go outside and get some sun?' 'Not yet, I have to learn all these obscure RTK3 kanji!'."	
晃	limpid	The sun's rays passed through to the very bottom of the limpid pond.	10	2446		コウ	The sun's rays can be seen in a limpid liquid.	
曝	air out	An outburst of sun is a good time to air out your things.	19	2447		バク	If you don't air out your grievances. One day they will be released in an outburst of anger.	
曙	dawn	"I go out at the crack of dawn to buy a newspaper (The Sun), and bump into ex-sumo wrestler Akebono (曙) who is doing the same. Of course I ask for his signature on my copy of The Sun, which he signs ""Dawn (Akebono)""."	17	2448		ショ	"At DAWN, the SUN starts it's DAY of work, yes? So doesn't it need to SIGN IN with with SIGNATURE? Just picture that silly image for this kanji."	
昂	elevate	A sunny day to a depressed person is just like a box of stamps to a stamp otaku: both have the ability to elevate spirits!	8	2449		コウ	Sending mail to the sun. It would take a whole box of stamps to elevate it that high.	
旺	effulgent	The Sun King (Louis XIV) was known for his effulgent reign.	8	2450		オウ	"[+katsuo] This is the Sun King. Sayeth Wikipedia: ""The Sun King (in French le Roi Soleil) because of the idea that, just as the planets revolve around the Sun, so too should France and the court revolve around [the king] (""http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louis_XIV_of_France). And just like the sun, he was quite effulgent and actually emitted sunlight."	
昏	dusk	At dusk every day I go out in one of those airplanes that leaves a vapour trail and write my family name just above the setting sun. (I have to wait until dusk so that the sun is low enough in the sky).	8	2451		コン	The woman leaves her marriage at dusk after all the guests have gone home.	
晦	last day of the month	"Every month, there is one day that is the last day of the month."	10	2452		カイ	"If only every day could be the last day of the month, I'd be filing for paychecks all the time."	
腎	kidney	"When the sex slave misbehaves, threaten to sell his body parts starting with his kidney."	13	2453		ジン	"If you have a weak KIDNEY, you'll become a SLAVE to your CROTCH's need to pee. Oh well, it's just a weakness of the FLESH."	
股	thigh	"Where's my flesh missile? Between my thighs, naturally..."	8	2454		コ	My thigh is the part of the body that my missile smacks against.	
膿	pus	"If your flesh gets stung by the thorns of certain plants while doing agriculture work, your wound may infect and show pus."	17	2455		ノウ	"Forget Manure, the best thing for agriculture is pus, freshly squeezed from some rancid flesh."	
腑	viscera	"That municipality is so unsafe, thugs will attack you and cut the viscera out of your flesh to sell them on the black organs market."	12	2456		フ	Your viscera are like a municipality of body parts working together with different roles.	
胱	bladder	"It starts in the bladder, passes through a certain body part and then appears like a ray of golden light!"	10	2457		コウ	The part of the body that golden rays of light seem to pour out from.	
胚	embryo	"When she took the pregnancy test because she thought she was carrying the flesh of an embryo, the test was negative and she dropped it on the floor."	9	2458		ハイ	"When a baby is born, he or she is considered ""age zero"". After a year of life, he or she is only then considered one year old. Since an embryo is found within a woman, it is effectively part of the body of that person. However, it is not yet zero years old - in fact, its age is negative one (i.e. -1 years old)! 胚性幹細胞　－　はいせいかんさいぼう　＝　embryonic stem cell."	
肛	anus	The anus is the part of the body where crafty smugglers often hide small valuables.	7	2459		コウ	"The body part I was always told a new one would be crafted for me (albeit in the less friendly ""I'll tear you a new one!"") is the anus."	
臆	cowardice	Cowardice is the situation where you get the thought that maybe running away and saving your flesh is a good idea.	17	2460		オク	Cowardice is when you are not willing to sacrifice your flesh for your ideas.	
膝	knee	"Before lacquer (#932) was made with water, it was made by draining this body part of fluid: the knee!"	15	2461		シツ	"Back in ancient Japan, people didn't have knee pads for things like rollerblading and such (what, come on. Ninjas on rollerblades. Ultimate 90s flashback). Instead, they would simply dip their knees in laquer, and wait until it dried (hence the flesh, and the abscence of any drops of water). Unfortunately, this meant that you would have to wait about 30 minutes after deciding to go rollerblade until you could actually do it (took some time to dry) - and removing it was a serious pain."	
脆	fragile	"If you're a fragile person, lots of things are dangerous and will hurt your flesh."	10	2462		ゼイ	Doing dangerous things reminds us that our flesh is fragile.	
肋	rib	"Without ribs, our flesh wouldn't have the power to stay upright."	6	2463		ロク	"Flesh, power: According to the bible, the part of the body that gave power to womankind was the mans' rib. Without it, they wouldn't exist."	
肘	elbow	Sometimes I get carried away and do elbow curls until the point where my forearm snaps off! When that happens I simply pull out the glue and re-attach the elbow to my flesh.	9	2464		チュウ	Picture two Siamese twins glued together at the elbow.	
腔	body cavity	A body cavity is an empty space within your flesh.	12	2465		コウ	"During a body cavity search, the police check certain parts of your body to make sure they're empty of things like cocaine, etc.."	
腺	gland	A body part that acts like a spring for hormones is a gland.	13	2466		セン	"When adrenaline glands release hormones, the body springs into action."	
腫	tumor	A tumor is a useless body part that is nothing but heavy.	13	2467		シュ	"When flesh clumps together and gets heavy, it forms a tumor."	
膳	dining tray	Some people insist that the serving maids who bring in the dining trays are especially virtuous and never let any man touch their flesh.	16	2468		ゼン	The virtuous vegan will not touch this dining tray because it has had a piece of meat on it.	
肱	armrest	An armrest is something that lets you rest the flesh of your arm by keeping your elbow by your side.	8	2469		コウ	"You are sitting in a nice easy chair and all of a sudden there's a loud fart sound. Everyone looks at you, but you shrug your shoulders. They go back to what they're doing...""pyuuuun!"" They look back at you. ""It's not me,"" you say, ""it's just this armrest rubbing against my flesh."" They seem satisfied, and go back to their work. Little do they know that you're making armpit farts (my primitive for the right side) and really putting all of your flesh into it!"	
胡	uncivilized	Only uncivilized people eat old flesh.	9	2470		ウ	"Tip: uncivilized appears as part of four other kanji in Heisig, but is not named as such in the text. REF: lake (#148), coral reef (#2562), paste (#2650), ghee (#2749). (P.S. As a primitive I call this ""zombie"", because when the moon shines on the gravestones the zombies arise. And, zombies do tend to be uncivilized.)."	
楓	maple tree	"How do you know if a tree is a maple tree? Easy: Just stand next to the tree on a windy day, and if you get covered in maple syrup, it's a maple tree."	13	2471		フウ	Maple tree helicopter seeds twirling in the wind:　　　　　　　　　 http://www.flickr.com/photos/gnewton/441336070/.	
枕	pillow	"The guy who was thrown into the river to sink was given one last request. ""If I'm gonna be sleeping with the fishes,"" he said, ""can I at least have a pillow? I'm real sensitive."" The mafia bosses laughed. ""Look, my doctor said I can only use wooden pillows, I have a real serious condition. Can I at least die comfortable-like?"" The mafia dudes said fine, and let him have his pillow. They tossed him the river and drove off...and after a minute, he bobbed to the top, thanks to his floating wood pillow."	8	2472		チン	WOODEN PILLOWS do not sink (#1888) in water.	
楊	purple willow	"Because it's easy to spot, a purple willow is the tree that marks where my piggy bank is."	13	2473		ヨウ	"Normally, I can resist the cries of a weeping willow, but this one, she was a purple willow! I just couldn't let the poor tree sit there, so I gave her my piggy bank."	
椋	Oriental elm	"The Oriental elm is, of course, a tree fairly representative of the Orient and thus it is common in the capital in order to show ambassadors what the Orient is all about."	12	2474		リョウ	"In the Japanese remake ""A Nightmare on Oriental Elm Street"", an anthropomorphic tree wreaks havoc on Kyoto. They should never have sold the film rights."	
榛	hazel	Tip: bonsai and wheat are later combined into Manchu dynasty (#2877). Story: I come across lots of trees all planted in the Manchu dynasty. Then I notice every single one is a hazel tree. I wonder why? In the Manchu dynasty people must have been hazel nuts.	14	2475		シン	"I love hazelnuts so much that I had a hazel tree installed in my backyard. Mostly it's just for decoration, like a bonsai plant, but I harvest it like wheat every so often: there's just nothing better than homemade Nutella."	
櫛	comb	This magic comb will comb the nodes out of wood/trees (and make the grain straight).	17	2476		シツ	A comb used to be a wooden tool with many nodes.	
槌	wooden hammer	"Sick of being chased, the maestro grabs a wooden hammer to fight back with."	13	2477		ツイ	"When the trees rebel, they will chase us with wooden hammers."	
樵	mallet	Mallet seems to be a poor word choice for this A lumberjack won't cut down a charred tree as they're not useful for anything.	16	2478		ショウ	A charred tree can be toppled with a mallet.	
梯	ladder	"The tree was a little too high, but, hey, no problem, I'll just use my younger brother as a ladder!"	11	2479		テイ	The only one who really needs the LADDER to climb onto our TREE house is my LITTLE BROTHER. The rest of us can just scramble up.	
椅	chair	"To the Japanese, the first time they saw a chair, it looked like a strange use of wood! Probably why they still like to sit on the floor..."	12	2480		イ	A strange kind of tree grows in the shape of a chair.	
柿	persimmon	"Nobody buys persimmons at the market, because there's a tree in the middle where you can pick them for free."	9	2481		シ	The guy at the market says: I'll give you one persimmon tree per every Simon you bring me!	
柑	citrus tree	Behold! The sweetrus tree!	9	2482		コン	The fruits from the citrus tree taste sweet.	
桁	girder	Girders are support beams that are nowadays mostly made out of steel. But in the ancient houses that are placed at the boulevard the girders will be made out of wood.	10	2483		コウ	"When the wooden girders start to snap, the workmen shout ""Run! Let's go!""."	
杭	picket	Use pickets to hold down the tree in times of whirlwind.	8	2484		コウ	"After the whirlwind hit, the wooden pickets from his fence were scattered all over his yard."	
柊	holly	"The holly tree has leaves which are always green. This is very practical in winter, when so much isn't, so that's why it became very popular as christmas decoration."	9	2485		シュ	"All the best holly-days are during the winters, x-mas, new years...emperor's birthday?"	
柚	citron	"The citron is relatively unknown overseas, but citron trees are beginning to sprout up everwhere in Japan."	9	2486		ユ	In keeping with the move to greener autos Citroën has introduced its new line which instead of 油 oil (#1107) runs on an extract from citron trees.	
椀	wooden bowl	Wooden bowls made of wood have the address of the maker on the on the side.	12	2487		ワン	"This is a specially hand-crafted wooden bowl. If you turn is over, you can see the address of the craftsman on the bottom."	
栂	hemlock	The tree your mother warned you about is the hemlock.	9	2488		0	Mother called me out to the tree in order to partake of some delicious hemlock tea.	
柾	spindle tree	"Give the spindle tree a spin, if you can guess where it lands correctly, you'll get a prize!"	9	2489		0	I am not sure if tree is the correct term. It looks more like a plastic hedge. Spindle little more and get a real tree.　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　http://www.flickr.com/photos/koichiwb/2433102011/.	
榊	sacred Shinto tree	The sacred Shinto tree is a tree of the gods.	13	2490		0	The sacred Shinto tree is of course a tree that is dedicated to the gods.	
樫	evergreen oak	"The evergreen oak is a tree most strict with its leaves: they must be evergreen, or else!"	16	2491		0	"A very strict master dictates that the slaves must ensure that the evergreen oaks are ever green. One day a slave notices, to his terror, that one of them has turned brown! Not wanting to get buried up to his crotch in soil, he quickly pulls out a can of green spray paint and paints the entire tree. Even if that tree wasn't ever green before, it certainly is now!"	
槙	Chinese black pine	"Truth is that all Chinese secretly pine for black ""trees"" if you get what I mean!"	14	2492		テン	The tree of white lies is the Chinese white pine. The tree of truth is the Chinese black pine.	
楢	Japanese oak	The special brand Horned Whiskey is riped in special oak caskets made of the Japanese oak tree.	13	2493		シュウ	Wood from the Japanese oak is very valuable. That's why the chieftain (#2906) demands that his house be made from the Japanese oak.	
橘	mandarin orange	"The tachibana, or mandarin orange, is a type of tree which sometimes yields poor quality fruit. In such times, instead of simply standing up and inviting customers to make a deal, you must force the sale of your mandarin oranges by brandishing a halberd and forcing the customer to make a deal with you by purchasing your substandard fruit. [Note: along with 柚 citrus tree (#2482), this is used to describe all citrus plants - 柑橘類 かんきつるい means 'citrus fruit'.]."	16	2494		キツ	"To get MANDARIN ORANGES off the tree use your HALBERD, then MAKE A DEAL to sell them."	
桧	Japanese cypress	"The Japanese cypress is a good tree to meet at: the Japanese covers the atmosphere and the cypress presses on any spies. Hey, I tried."	10	2495		カイ	"According to the Wikipedia article, Japanese cypress (hinoki) is grown for its high-quality wood, which is used in the building of ""temples, shrines, traditional noh theatres, baths"" etc. So, this tree is vital to the construction of many of the major meeting places in Japanese society. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chamaecyparis_obtusa."	
棲	roost	"His wife wanted the chickens in the hen house to be housed properly, so she chopped up a tree and made wooden roosts for them to sit on."	12	2496		セイ	"My wife wanted a special place to roost, so I built her one - on the top of that tree."	
栖	nestle	"For nestling, the west side of the tree is best – otherwise you get woken up by the sun in the morning. Remember: West is best for your nest."	10	2497		セイ	Its a secret that Nestlé chocolate syrup is drawn from chocolate trees that are found in the west.	
梗	spiny	"I learned this one from the movie Evil Dead, but when it grows late, trees change shape and become spiny creatures! Lesson: don't go out at night."	11	2498		コウ	"With the safety of darkness as it grows late, spiny little insects start crawling out of the trees."	
桔	bellflower	"When you see bellflowers next to a tree, ring them for good luck."	10	2499		キツ	"When you see bellflowers growing under a tree, it means good luck."	
杜	temple grove	"A normal grove is 林, so in a temple grove half the trees have been removed and replaced by soil (presumably for graves)."	7	2500		ト	A simple Zen temple grove: A single tree with soil.	
杷	grain rake	"All the grain that was spilled under the tree looked like a mosaic, but someone took a grain rake and disposed of it."	8	2501		ハ	"Dad gave me a grain rake and told me to go and rake the grain, but since this is the most boring task in the whole world, I climbed a tree and played with my Rubik's cube instead."	
梶	oar	"An otter's tail like an oar, which he uses to help move trees into his dam."	11	2502		ビ	An oar looks a little like a wooden tail.	
杵	wooden pestle	"Tree, horse: At cooking school, I learned that there's always a relation between the item you will pestle and the size of the pestle itself. When I read in a cooking book that I had to mash up a horse with a wooden pestle, naturally a tried to obtain a tree to do the job."	8	2503		ショ	"Ah, nothing like using a wooden pestle to mash up some horse meat on a Sunday afternoon."	
杖	cane	Wood of a certain length can be used as a cane.	7	2504		ジョウ	"A length of wood will be suitable as a cane, a walking stick or even a weapon (a jo).This is じょう from the martial art Joudou 杖道. Ten 尺 make up a 杖. Also, walking stick, つえ."	
椎	sweet oak	"Why is the sweet oak so sweet? Not sure, but to me it tastes just like turkey (with gravy and cranberry sauce!) Now that is sweet."	12	2505		ツイ	Sweeter than Shiit~ake? Turkeys gobble Shiitake mushrooms椎茸 off the sweet oak tree. 　http://www.flickr.com/photos/tinyhare/13963627/.	
樽	barrel	The revered horned whiskey is riped in special barrels made out of Japanese Oak trees.	16	2506		ソン	The most revered tree is one that can be used as a wine barrel.	
柵	palisade	"A palisade is a ""fence of stakes especially for defense,"" usually the stakes are very strong, set closely together, and pointed on top. Tome can be seen as a pictograph of several close-set wooden stakes, braced by one horizontal bar."	9	2507		サク	An army of scholars build a wooden palisade to protect their precious tome of literature.	
櫓	turret	The village that made its living out of catching fish above all was prone to be raided by pirates. So they made a watch turret out of trees and would look every day if the pirates were coming.	19	2508		ロ	"They were stuck in that wooden turret for ages, with nothing but sundried fish to eat."	
橿	sturdy oak	"A sturdy oak was the tree I tried to build with my stack of pancakes and waffles, but it didn't turn out to be so sturdy."	17	2509		キョウ	How does an oak tree become sturdy? By eating pancake stacks for breakfast every morning. That's a sturdy oak.	
杓	wooden ladle	A wooden ladle is of course a ladle made out of wood.	7	2510		シャク	A wooden ladle is a wooden ladle is a wooden ladle.	
李	damson	"A kid falls out a tree and the father exclaims, ""Damn, son! Watch where you're going when you go plum-pickin'!""."	7	2511		リ	Children like to stand under the damson tree and hope the plum fruits will fall into their mouths.	
棉	raw cotton	"Before cotton (#1367) is made into thread for Spider-Man's white towels, it simply grows on a tree as raw cotton."	12	2512		メン	"The raw cotton that is ultimately made into white towels does not grow on trees, but on a kind of bush instead."	
楯	escutcheon	Escutcheons are noble shields that depict the coat of arms of a family. They are usually made out of wood.	13	2513		ジュン	"Escutcheons are heraldic displays, often found on shields and made of wood."	
榎	hackberry	A Japanese hackberry tree is a type of tree that only has full foliage in the summer. It loses its foliage in the winter.	14	2514		カ	"If you hack into the hackberry tree with ur PC, you can program it to grow berries even in summer. What a cool hack!"	
樺	birch	A birch tree can have a great aura of splendor with it's shiny white coated trunk.	14	2515		カ	"The headmaster walks past and notices a teacher beating a student with a wooden birch stick. ""Splendid work old chap! As you were!""."	
槍	lance	When Sir Lancelot wants a new lance he goes down to the godown (they have a nice selection for sale) and tries some out by thrusting them into a nearby tree.	14	2516		ソウ	Sir Lancelot gets wood when she godowns. -or- Lance Bass gets wood thinking about Sir Lancelot godowning on him.	
柘	wild mulberry	"The mulberry (#698) may be nice and let you dance around it, but if it were a wild mulberry tree it would try to protectiself by throwing rocks at you."	9	2517		シャ	"If you smoke the leaves of the wild mulberry tree, you'll get stoned fo sho coz that tree is wild, brother."	
梱	bale	You would be in a quandary if you had to bale trees.	11	2518		コン	"How do make a bale? Simple. You take a tree, like the one on the left, and you pent it up like the one on the right. Just like that."	
枇	loquat	"A loquat is a tropical fruit tree, that compared to other trees has an odd seasonal pattern: it's fruit is ripe in late winter or early spring."	8	2519		ビ	"The loquat tree is very rare. To loquate it, you need to compare it to the trees next to it."	
樋	downspout	"A downspout is made by hollowing out a tree and placing it to carry water ""traffic"" from your rooftop down to the ground."	14	2520		トウ	My downspout empties into a bucket (#2530) 桶 beside the road.	
橇	sled	Santa needs to wear 3 fur coats when he rides his wooden sled.	16	2521		キョウ	A dog sled is made of wood and has to be pulled by at least 3 ultra furry dogs whose fur can withstand the arctic cold.	
槃	enjoyment	"To the enjoyment of humans, many trees are carriers of delicious fruits."	14	2522		ハン	"Just for some fun and enjoyment, the crew put their carrier on top of a tree as an April Fool's prank."	
栞	bookmark	"Two birds high up in a tree drying out after flying through a storm. ""How will we get back on track? We lost our bearings!"" number one cries. ""Don't worry,"" the other one says, as he flips out his mobile. ""I have it bookmarked.""."	10	2523		カン	"He was reading his book up a tree, and used clotheslines for a bookmark."	
椰	coconut tree	"(Note: ear + city walls = exclamation (#2680)). I see a tree with an exclamation mark painted on it. ""Why is that?"" I think, ""An exclamation mark indicates danger, but it's only a tree"". Then a coconut drops on my head. Ah, it's a coconut tree."	13	2524		ヤ	"A coconut tree drops a coconut on your head, causing you to make an obscene exclamation (#2680)."	
檀	sandalwood	Sandalwood is the ideal wood for a podium: it's easy on your sandals!	17	2525		ダン	"The gunslinger raises the smooth sandalwood grip of his revolver just as the corrupt ""Big Boss"" politician ascends his podium for a victory speech."	
樗	plotosid	"We were seeking shelter for the rain under the plotosid tree, but someone had put a double snare there. As if that foul smelling tree wasn't enough trouble already."	15	2526		チョ	~~ Keyword should be sumac ~~ Sumacs are worthless trees. They don't protect from rain so you shouldn't use them for a ceiling - and they stink so you can't use them to make snares.	
槻	zelkova	"The zelkova is a sort of elm tree that is very good for making bonsais, setting a standard for other trees, so to speak."	15	2527		キ	The zelkova is like the standard tree people think of when they think of Japan.	
椙	cryptomeria	"Due its tendency to encrypt all its messages, the cryptomeria has been a fairly prosperous tree whereas all the other trees have already fallen prey to espionage."	12	2528		0	The cryptomeria [すぎ - also written (encrypted) as 杉 cedar (#1713)] is a valuable timber tree so growing them would naturally lead to prosperity.	
彬	copious	Cedar trees are so copious they only come in groves.	11	2529		ヒン	"How to make a grove: Take a sheet of carton, fold it, cut out one tree in the shape of a cedar, unfold. You'll get copious amounts of trees in no time."	
桶	bucket	"One of my favourite pastimes is that I like to jump out of a tree on my pogo stick and try to land in a bucket. When successful it makes a very satisfying ""clang"". (Note: new primitive pogo stick = chop seal + utilize, for explanation see my entry at traffic (#1408).)."	11	2530		ヨウ	"As if in a cartoon, my pogo stick got stuck in a wooden bucket, causing me to fall over."	
楕	ellipse	The 惰 lazy (#629) way to draw an ellipse requires two wooden pegs and some string (http://tinyurl.com/252zgx).	13	2531		ダ	"When tasked with planting the trees to form a circle, the somewhat lazy gardener just winged it (instead of measuring) and the result was an ellipse of trees."	
樒	star-anise	The star-anise is an evergreen tree kept in secrecy for it's aromatic oil.	15	2532		ミツ	"Before Anise was a star she lived openly in town, but now that she is star-Anise she lives in secrecy in the woods."	
毬	furball	I requested that the cat do something and he spit up a furball.	11	2533		キュウ	"For her birthday, your pampered girlfriend's request is, ""Something made of fur"". So you get the cat to cough her up a furball."	
燿	twinkle	"New primitive; let futon = feathers + turkey (i.e. my futon is made with turkey feathers). Then: Twinkle, twinkle little star, oops my futon is on fire."	18	2534		ヨウ	"With a twinkle in my eye, I set my turkey feather futon on fire for no apparent reason."	
燎	watchfire	The fires outside the puptent of the sentinel are watchfires.	16	2535		リョウ	"Watchfire is what you must do if you light a fire outside your pup tent, in case it sets it alight."	
炬	torch	A gigantic fire was started by the Olympic torch.	9	2536		コ	The olympic torch is a fire carried on a gigantic journey from olympus to wherever the games are.	
焚	kindle	"A fire was kindled by the insane arsonist under a grove of trees. Unable to escape the ensuing inferno, he was burned alive."	12	2537		フン	"I'm really bad at making fires, I needed kindling from a whole grove of trees before I managed to kindle the fire."	
灸	moxa	A mummy is running around the room on fire after his moxa treatment goes wrong.	7	2538		キュウ	Moxa is a therapy involving burning a plant with fire together with acupuncture or shiatsu. It simply burns for a long time.	
燭	candlelight	"Fire, voiced - water: After the incident where the insect made a pitiful voiced sound, you decide to free it. Immediately it is attracted to the candlelight and flies into the fire. Bugger!"	17	2539		ソク	"蜀:　ショク　(Green caterpillar)　If you are trying to view a green caterpillar late in the evening, use the fire of a candlelight. They are tough to spot:　http://www.flickr.com/photos/moozkat/1606476712/."	
煽	fanning	Fanning the flames with a fan.	14	2540		セン	With a fan you can be fanning the fire into a bigger fire. Just make sure it doesn't get out of hand...	
煤	soot	The so-and-so from Mary Poppins was covered in soot because he was a fire chimney sweep.	13	2541		バイ	"Teacher: ""How is soot formed?"" Student: ""Well, there is a fire, so-and-so, and then there is soot!""."	
煉	firing	The East are the best at tempering (#2030) because their fires are the best at firing.	12	2542		レン	"The process of firing, that is, glaze bricks or refine metals, is well known in the east, and of course fire is used for it."	
燦	dazzling	"After the evening rice, the guest set out to entertain the children of the house with a dazzling show. He pulled a wand seemingly from out of his crotch and suddenly it appeared to be on fire! Ohs and ahs ensued."	17	2543		サン	Tip: The wand + evening + crotch combination appears again in repast (#2798).	
灼	refulgent	"The cook just got a new set of pots and pans from the master of the house. Putting them on the fire, they shined so much the refulgent shine blinded him until he blocked it from his view by holding up his ladel."	7	2544		シャク	He used a ladle to protect his eyes from the refulgent light of the fire.	
烙	branding	"With an iron that has been in the fire, each beast is subjected to branding."	10	2545		ラク	Branding with FIRE - EACH animal.	
焔	flames	"When The Pinnacle collapses, there'll be plenty of flames for sure."	12	2546		エン	She's a witch!!! Bind her up and set her on fire like they did in olden days so she can feel the flames of hell.	
熔	fuse metal	"The fire was contained in the valley (they put a roof over it to keep it from spreading) but it grew hot enough in there to fuse metal... when it was over, the valley looked like a giant mirror!"	14	2547		ヨウ	"If you contain a fire, you can fuse metal with it."	
煎	roast	"In many asian restaurants, meat is roasted right in front of you over flames."	13	2548		セン	"At the roast, they make the roastee sit in front of everyone else, over the flames to speak, as the comedians roast him a new one!"	
烹	stew	If a fire goes smoothly you will have stew in no time.	10	2549		ホウ	Tip: tall and complete can be combined into go smoothly (#3001).	
牽	tug	I tugged at the the cow's udder but mysteriously no milk came out. I then noticed the crown of his head. It was a bull!	11	2550		ケン	"Mysterious, crown, cow: In Kazad-dum, Gandalf had found a mysterious crown. It really helped his magic, but when they came back to Rivendell, he had become unresistable to the cows (small side-effect). He tried to tug the crown off, but did not succeed..."	
牝	female animal	"The cow in this frame 牝 is filling a spoon with milk from its udders, so it must be a female animal. (The cow in the next frame 牡 is rolling around in the soil and is, not surprisingly, a male animal.)."	6	2551		ヒン	"While the bull wants rough sex, the cow would rather spoon, I guess all female animals are the same."	
牡	male animal	"Male animals are dirty pigs in English, but in Japanese they are dirty cows ボ ボウ おす お- おん-."	7	2552		ボ	That cow is staring at me and kicking up soil... hold on that's a male... animal... Oh shit! Run!	
瑶	precious stone	"That condor is a hoarding creature, it will pick up any precious stone and hoard it with the rest of its jewels as if it were a dragon!"	13	2553		ヨウ	The king entrusts his most precious stone to his pet condor. It quickly flies off to the mountains if anyone else tries to take it.	
琳	chime	The mechanism in my old grandfather clock suddenly broke with an almighty chime and one of the jewels was thrown out through the window into a nearby grove of trees. I'm now searching for the jewel in the grove while the clock continues to chime incessantly.	12	2554		リン	The king knew playtime in the grove was over when he heard the clock tower chime.	
瑠	marine blue	“The king has been detained by some marines!” “How do you know they were marines?” “Because they were wearing marine blue.”.	14	2555		ル	"The king was detained, by men in marine blue; Must be the marines, planning a coup. (thx Katsuo/gavmck)."	
斑	speckled	Wolverine was easily able to join the squad (#1229) when he was seen wearing a top hat speckled with jewels on the sides. (thanks mantixen).	12	2556		ハン	Tenacious D (the two kings) speckled the death row inmate from both sides with their pearl juice.	
琉	lapis lazuli	"The king was given two choices by the abductor: either the king gives him the lapis lazuli jewels, or he throws the king's infant son into the stream."	11	2557		リュウ	"This kanji should be ""Ryukyu Islands"" or something similar and 瑠 should be Lapis Lazuli."	
弄	tinker with	The king used both hands to tinker with himself in his spare time.	7	2558		ロウ	"Picture the king holding a large pan in his two hands and tinkering with it, wishing he could lead the itinerant life of a tinker. As a rhyme: The king, he uses his two hands, To tinker with his pots and pans . . ."	
瑳	burnish	The king appreciated the distinction of burnished jewels.	14	2559		サ	Most can not tell the distinction between a precious jewel and an ordinary rock until it has been burnished.	
琢	hone	I hone my skills by skillfully separating real jewels from the fake junk worn by fat sows!	11	2560		タク	King Henry VIII was keen on hunting wild boar. Here we see him first honing his skills on a sow.	
珊	coral	"The coral is not found in this tome of jewels since it's really not a mineral, but the remains of small animals."	8	2561		サン	The greet coral reef (珊瑚礁) forms a palisade (#2507) encrusted with the finest jewels the ocean ca offer.	
瑚	coral reef	Coral reefs are a like a jewel of the ocean. Though our uncivilized behavior is causing them to die off.	13	2562		コ	The king had a coral reef installed in his lake.	
瑞	fortunate	"The king wished he was as handsome as Fabio standing on the edge (#1167) of a mountain combing his hair, but he realized he was fortunate in other ways."	13	2563		ズイ	"How most fortunate! After gambling his life on the edge (#1167), Indiana Jones discovers that the comb is studded with countless jewels."	
珪	silicon	"In Silicon Valley, people live like kings in ivy-clad mansions."	10	2564		ケイ	Ivy from Soul Calibur has big balls of silicon in her chest.	
玖	jet	"Mummies are adorned with jet jewels to connote death, or something. Oh, yeah, 'cause King Tut was a big fan of jet planes."	7	2565		キュウ	Public airlines fly slow and take a long time to arrive so the king has a private jet.	
瑛	crystal stone	He who possesses the crystal stone is the rightful king of England.	12	2566		エイ	King Arthur of England pulls the sword from a crystal stone and embarks on his destiny.	
玩	toy	The ball was the only thing that people at the beginning of time had to use as a toy. Poor cavemen.	8	2567		ガン	"And so it was, the ball marked the beginning of all the toys that were to come."	
玲	tinkling	"The king orders his penis, ""Start tinkling!""."	9	2568		レイ	"When the king barks out his orders, all the chandeliers and other ornaments in the palace start tinkling."	
畏	apprehensive	The man being tortured was apprehensive as he saw his tormentor approaching with a hairpin poised to pierce his brain!	9	2569		イ	I’m feeling apprehensive because I’m wading barefoot in a paddyfield and I've just dropped my hairpin.	
畢	lastly	"First, we sow the rice field, then we plant the flowers, and lastly we plant the corn. (Stroke order and story in one)."	10	2570		ヒツ	"Lastly, let me mention that my ricefield and silage stack are amongst the top ten in the country..."	
畦	paddy-field ridge	Ivy grows on the paddy-field ridge encircling the rice field as opposed to the intra-field paddy ridge that divides it in half.	11	2571		ケイ	"[+mantixen] The ordinary 畔 paddy-ridge (#1204) dissects the field by dividing it in half, but the paddy-field ridge runs around the outside & is covered in ivy. Disambiguate by noting that the hyphen in 'paddy-ridge' divides the word itself in half (five letters each side) but 'paddy-field ridge' has five extra letters on the right, the ridge itself, in fact, the part covered in ivy."	
痒	itch	Scrapie is a disease sheep sometimes catch. It causes them to itch so unbearably that they scrape themselves to death.	11	2572		ヨウ	"If you think wearing a wool sweater is itchy, just think of how sheep must feel! They must be so sick of wearing that itchy wool all the time!"	
痰	phlegm	"When your sickness involves inflammation, you will produce phlegm (perhaps inphlegmation?)."	13	2573		タン	"If I'm sick, and have an inflammation of my lungs, I cough up a lot of phlegm."	
疹	measles	He had a curious form of measles : the red marks on his skin were all in the shape of an umbrella. The doctors of course couldn't explain it...	10	2574		シン	"I'm sick with the measles. Whenever I go out, I carry my parasol to try and cover up the rash."	
痔	hemorrhoids	"""Hemorrhoids 痔 are the sickness suffered by people who sit in meditative poses for long periods at Buddhist temples 寺."" ( Joseph De Roo's ""2001 Kanji"")."	11	2575		ヂ	"Hemorrhoids is a sickness. Mnemonic 'holy hemorrhoids' and picture a monk at a Buddhist temple. This is a word that kids find funny, pronounced ジ。."	
癌	cancer	"The SICKNESS called cancer works by self-replication, so that its bad GOODS grow more & more until a vertiable MOUNTAIN of them forms on you-- that's the tumor, the awful sign of cancer."	17	2576		ガン	"You may have a mountain of goods, but cancer is a sickness that strikes the rich and poor with equal contempt."	
痩	lose weight	The sickness that only allows you to eat monkey crotch will surely make you lose weight.	15	2577		ソウ	"The poor monkey obviously had a sickness. He was scratching his crotch the whole time and when he started to lose weight heavily, the caretakers knew they couldn't save him anymore."	
痕	scar	"I suffer from silver-sickness, that is, if anything made of silver even touches my skin it leaves a scar."	11	2578		コン	"I got sick and needed surgery, but the silver lining is that now I have these awesome scars I can show off!"	
痺	paralysis	"This sickness seems to prey upon the lowly of society mostly, and causes paralysis in its final stages."	13	2579		ヒ	"Caveman, lowly: Caveman was just a lowly Neanderthaler, trying to survive. But he had healing hands and people were brought in from far to have him cure their paralysis."	
眸	apple of the eye	"Here you have a picture of him with his apple of the eye: you see him keeping an eye upon his favourite cow, while leaning on it with his elbow."	11	2580		ボウ	"Barnyard romance: The big bull winked with his EYE and let out a MOO (牟 2961) toward the cow and said, ""Your the APPLE OF my EYE baby!""."	
眩	dizzy	If you see mysterious things in front of your eyes you're definitely dizzy.	10	2581		ゲン	"When you see mysterious stars from your eyes, it's a sign that you're dizzy - 眩暈（めまい）。 Maybe becuase you're fighting off a face hugger who has its tail round your neck!"	
瞭	obvious	I paint a huge eye on the side of my pup tent. Why? – It’s obvious: when I’m at the camping site it makes it obvious which tent is mine so I can quickly locate it.	17	2582		リョウ	It's obvious that the pup tent with a huge eye on the side belongs to the dark lord Sauron.	
眉	eyebrow	The eyebrows hover over the eyes like a divided flag.	9	2583		ビ	Pictograph: opera glasses over eyes ビ ミ まゆ.	
雉	pheasant	"I threw my dart at a pheasant during the hunt, but hit a turkey instead."	13	2584		ジ	A pheasant is like a small wild TURKEY except you can kill it with a DART.	
矩	carpenter's square	"That carpenter can never remember where his tools are, so there is a gigantic arrow pointing to his carpenter's square."	10	2585		ク	My carpenter's square is hanging on that gigantic dart.	
磐	crag	"Last time I was on crag's list, I found someone selling an aircraft carrier they carved out of stone! A crazy lawn ornament I suppose."	15	2586		バン	"If you want to take all the stones out of this crag, you'll need a large carrier."	
碇	grapnel	"A grapnel is a small anchor with several hooks, used for anchoring small boats, or to pull up sunken objects (it looks very much like a grappling hook). The position of stones underwater determines where the grapnel will catch."	13	2587		テイ	"He was determined to climb this rock, so he used a grapnel."	
碧	blue-green	"Notes: 珀 (not in Heisig) means ""amber"". Story for both: A bus is stopped at some traffic lights in Japan. Inside, King Henry VIII and Barry White are arguing over whether the lights are yellow or amber. The lights change to ""Go"", and Mick Jagger (stone) then joins a new argument over whether the lights are blue or green. They compromise on blue-green."	14	2588		ヘキ	The king gets stoned on white powder and sees little blue-green men.	
硯	inkstone	"This is not an ordinary rock, if you look carefully you will see that it is an ancient inkstone."	12	2589		ケン	A rock that you often see (in writing) is an inkstone.	
砥	grindstone	"My calling card is made of rock, which is a bit inconvenient because it is so big & heavy. So I’m using a grindstone to grind it down in size."	10	2590		シ	"In Bedrock, people had business cards made of rock and engraved using a grindstone. (Big ups to Katsuo)."	
碗	teacup	Teacups at the Japanese restaurant are usually made of stone and have the name and address of the restaurant written on them.	13	2591		ワン	Teacup = 茶碗（ちゃわん）. Pieces of stone(?) that everyone has at their address.	
碍	obstacle	Those gremlins! At night break they insist on coming out and gluing stones all over the place. These obstacles make it nearly impossible for me to get to work!	13	2592		ガイ	Getting stoned until night break glued to your couch is a major obstacle to success.	
碩	illustrious	Mount Rushmore is a place in the US where the heads of illustrious presidents are carved into the stone of a cliff.	14	2593		セキ	The stone heads at Mt. Rushmore are of illustrious historical figures.	
磯	rocky beach	"To qualify as a rocky beach (as opposed to a sandy beach), how many stones does the beach need?"	17	2594		キ	"""How many stones can you find at a rocky beach?"" the Zen Master asked his baffled pupil."	
砺	whetstone	A whetstone so notorious that it had destroyed ten thousand cliffs.	10	2595		レイ	Whatstone would make the best whetstone? I wandered ten thousand cliffs in search of an answer.	
碓	mill	"Some mills use an animal, typically an ox or donkey, to rotate the stone. But in this mill the stone is being pulled round by a turkey."	13	2596		カク	"I can tell you, it was a big mess when a turkey accidentally came between the stones of the wind mill. We had to clean the blood and feathers away for ages."	
禦	fend off	"The beautiful woman has to fend off honorable admirers every day, who want to drag her to the altar and marry her."	17	2597		ギョ	An honorable Catholic girl will fend off sexual advances until she exchanges vows at the altar.	
祷	beseech	"If you want longevity, go to an altar and beseech the gods."	19	2598		トウ	"Altar, longevity: Having seen all his friends and family die so long ago, the ancient sage visited the altar and beseeched the gods to put an end to his longevity."	
祐	ancestral tablet	"Picture a Japanese altar that contains ancestral tablets, placed on the right (on the left would be the incense)."	9	2599		ユウ	"On the lower right of each altar, there is a small ancestral tablet. Its purpose is to record all of the past converts to Buddhism - they are the ones who chose the right path before you and should be respected."	
祇	local god	"From http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shinto: Whenever a child is born in Japan, a local Shinto shrine adds the child's name to a list kept at the shrine and declares him or her a ""family child"" (氏子 ujiko?). After death an ujiko becomes a ""family spirit"", or ""family kami"" (氏神 ujigami?). Therefore, if your family name is inscribed in the altar, then you will become a local god."	8	2600		ギ	"The altar dedicated to this local god has the family names of all the villagers inscribed in it, so that the god knows whom he should favour."	
祢	ancestral shrine	The ancestral shrine has an altar that shows little reclining figurines of ancestors.	9	2601		ネ	"In countries where ancestors are worshiped, small children are taught to lie down (prostrate themselves) at the altar that is their ancestral shrine."	
禄	salarium	"Ancient Japanese officials collected their salarium in the shrines. A priest would collect their rice grains with a broom, and sweep it unto the altar, where the officials could collect their rice."	12	2602		ロク	"Rather than cold hard cash, the rice that the altar boys could sweep up became their salarium."	
禎	felicitation	"When the wheelchair-bound Felicity was healed at the altar (by one of those healer priests), she was finally able to stand upright and was overcome by felicitation."	13	2603		テイ	"On the special festival day, the altar of the local shrine contains the felicitations of local upright citizens, thanking their local gods for doing such a good job."	
秤	balancing scales	I use balancing scales to make sure everyone gets an even amount of Wheaties.	10	2604		ショウ	"He didn't have a balancing scales to figure out how much his wheat weighed, but he came up with a solution: he loaded a vessel with wheat and let it float in his lily pond, and then he measured how deep the vessel would be in the water."	
黍	millet	"Millet is a small grain whose importance was greater in prehistoric times. Nowadays, it has been supplanted in the West by wheat, and in the East (""under the bamboo umbrella""), by rice."	12	2605		ショ	Millet is grown primarily in African countries where there is little rain. As opposed to wheat and rice grains which are grown in areas one would need an umbrella.	
禿	bald	The dude was so upset about going bald that he covered himself with a wheat sack so that only his legs were showing.	7	2606		トク	"Because the poor guy went bald, he made a big, big hat out of wheat stalks. But it was so big, that it covered his whole torso, so that basically only his walking legs were visible under it."	
稔	bear fruit	"Every day, the farmer works in his wheat field, making a wish that his hard labor will bear fruit."	13	2607		ネン	I wish Wheaties would bear fruit... Then I wouldn't have to add any myself!	
稗	crabgrass	"Crabgrass is lowly wild grass, quickly spreading with nasty roots, and difficult to remove out of your wheat field."	13	2608		ハイ	A lowly wheat field only grows crap grass.	
穣	bumper crop	"A bumper crop is a very full crop. In this particular case, the bumper crop is a wheat crop, grown by this excentric guy in a grass skirt, who has gone completely native, but knows the secrets of how to get a good crop!"	18	2609		ジョウ	"On the tropical island of JOU, lots of crops are grown - coconuts, bananas, pineapples, etc - but these are really just for show to get lots of tourists. The real bumper crop that feeds the islanders is wheat."	
稜	imperial authority	"Wheat, rice seedling, walking legs: The next hurdle for mission of the rice seedlings with walking legs was the imperial authority. They had to cross through a wheat field, but the imperial authority didn't give permission for rice seedlings and wheat to mix. How to solve this...?"	13	2610		リョウ	"The greatest threat to a imperial authority is famine. If those seedlings do not become wheat crops, walking legs will storm the Imperial Palace."	
稀	sparse	"This region only has sparse agriculture. The few farmers hope their wheat crops will do well, but the soil isn't really good."	12	2611		キ	"Scarce is a better keyword since this really means rare. Here, the farmer hopes he gets some wheat during the harvest since food is scarce."	
穆	obeisant	I'm being obeisant to Doctor's orders -- trying to get into shape by eating only wheat and drinking only from that spring.	16	2612		ボク	The wheat farmers are obeisant towards the shape of the white little goddess.	
窺	peep	"Ladies, I apologize for peeping through the hole, but, you know, it's just standard protocol."	16	2613		キ	"A husband is peeping at his wife undressing through the key hole. ""What the heck are you doing? You can see me naked anytime!""."	
窄	tight	That hole is still too tight. Bring the saw to enlarge it!	10	2614		サク	Use a saw to enlarge a hole that's too tight.	
窟	cavern	"After Osama blew a hole in NY, the counterreaction forced him to yield and retreat into caverns."	13	2615		クツ	"In ""The Empire Strikes Back"", the Milennium Falcon flies into a large hole, of what they think is a cavern, because they don't want to yield to the forces of the Empire. Turns out it's not a cavern at all, actually..."	
穿	drill	"There's a knock on my door, and it's the local dentist accompanied by an elephant. The latter is a patient, and the dentist explains that he wants to drill a hole in its tusk, but his normal dentist's drill is too small, so could he borrow my big DIY drill. Anyway, I drill the hole in the tusk for him."	9	2616		セン	"No drill? Pfft, just use this here tusk as a drill and make all the holes you can!"	
竃	kitchen stove	"The original Japanese kitchen stoves were powered by electric eels (hey, Edison never made it to the far east!), so a small hole had to be placed in the dirt under the stove (for the eels to swim around in)."	17	2617		ソウ	"We finally found the tortoise that escaped (straw rope (#1377)), it has somehow crawled into a hole just above the kitchen stove and had become quite dirty."	
竪	longness	In the slave's crotch there something standing with a vase-like longness. What could it be?	14	2618		ジュ	"Sitting cross-legged or standing, the longness of a slaves workday doesn't change."	
颯	rustling	When I hear rustling in the night I stand up and go to check out what it is but it's always just wind.	14	2619		サツ	"Vase, wind (with gnats): He heard a rustling outside and when he checked, saw a host of killer gnats riding the wind in the direction of his house. He quickly jumped into the large standing vase and put the stopper in, to ride it out..."	
站	outpost	"Stand up, fortune telling: Something scary happened at the Mars outpost near the alien ruins. Suddenly, one of the soldiers stood up and started to tell fortunes. (Which weren't all that positive for mankind). Then he fell down and never spoke again."	10	2620		タン	A characteristic of an outpost is the lack of usual facilities. Here we see a fortune teller with no crystal ball having to make do with a vase.	
靖	repose	Many repose peacefully in a blue vase after being cremated.	13	2621		セイ	"Standing in the blue ocean with sand between my toes, dolphins swimming and palm trees rustling in the breeze. I Soak in this repose dreamscape."	
妾	concubine	It's a concubine: feel free to touch (#672) her all you want.	8	2622		ショウ	"A concubine is a woman you can stand on and walk all over. She does not have the same status as a wife. The contrast can be seen in the compound: 妻妾 (one's wife and mistresses). Both are women; however, the wife gets a brush for her hair; whereas the concubine is stood upon and trampled."	
衿	lapel	"Cloak, clock: The cloaks of Muslims have a tiny clock on their lapel, so that they can keep track on when to pray..."	9	2623		キン	The lapel of a cloak sometimes has a clock pinned on it for meditation sessions.	
裾	hem	Something is residing in the hem of your cloak. Maybe you should consider cleaning it? キョ コ すそ cuff; hem; foot of mountain.	14	2624		キョ	"If you reside in the slums, you start off as a small child with a very large cloak. As you grow it gets hemmed. The rich kids just get new cloaks."	
袷	lined kimono	"Cloak, fit: The lined kimono was lined in such a way that it made people appear to be slimmer than they really were. Even people who didn't fit in the accompanying cloak still bought the lined kimono..."	11	2625		コウ	Girls all lined up in front of the cloakroom in the department store to be fitted with lined kimonos for their coming of age ceremony.	
袴	pleated skirt	"You can 誇 boast (#1244) with words, or you can instead show off your expensive cloak and hakama."	11	2626		コ	I wear a cloak with a pleated skirt so that my girlfriend can easily put her jaws around my big one.	
襖	sliding door	"The safety violations at Japanese nuclear power plants are egregious! Not only are they built inside ancient Japanese castles, there are no considerations for contamination. I was visiting last month when I opened a sliding door to reveal the cloak room. All the scientists had haphazardly piled their cloaks on the CORE itself!"	18	2627		オウ	"Before you open the sliding door to the core of the nuclear reactor, you'd better put on your anti-radioactivity cloak."	
笙	Chinese panpipe	"The Chinese panpipe is an old musical instrument made of bamboo. People practiced the Chinese panpipe their whole life just so that they could play for the emperor, often a bad performance would have the emperor take their life away from them."	11	2628		ショウ	The Chinese panpipe is made by using different sized cells of bamboo.	
筏	raft	The bamboo was felled to make a raft.	12	2629		バツ	"Bamboo, fell: To escape the forestfire, the pandas felled some of the bamboo to make a raft and escape."	
簾	bamboo blinds	I see a load of bamboo for sale at a bargain price and decide it’s so cheap that I’ll buy it and make my own bamboo blinds.	19	2630		レン	Buy bargain bamboo blinds at Panda Palace.	
箪	rattan box	"If you are making a rattan box, then the best advice I can give you is to use bamboo and keep it simple."	15	2631		タン	The bamboo rice basket is a simple basket made of bamboo.	
竿	pole	In Japan they use bamboo poles to dry their clothes on.	9	2632		カン	bamboo cane (#2642) + bamboo pole = bamboo clothlines.	
箆	spatula	"Compared to before when Japanese mothers used to throw a hood over their naughty kids and beat them bloody with bamboo, the modern ""kitchen-discipline by spatula"" seems much more civilized."	14	2633		ヘイ	"Compare the effectiveness of beating a person with bamboo, a belt, and a spatula."	
箔	foil	If I have any bamboo shoots left over from my stirfry I wrap them up in foil to keep them moist overnight. Then I can use them the next day.	14	2634		ハク	I always roll up my foil and hide it in sticks of bamboo overnight. This is to foil any attempt to steal it.	
笥	wardrobe	"The film director is making a new low budget version of ""The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe"". As we watch him, he appears to be constructing something out of bamboo. Finally the director says, ""Well, no lion or witch yet, but thanks to this bamboo at least the wardrobe is finished""."	11	2635		ス	A director of a samurai war film has his actors fitted in a bamboo armor wardrobe.	
箭	arrow shaft	"Bamboo, in front: Martial arts movie. The hero walks through a bamboo forest, and suddenly an arrow shaft stands quivering in the bamboo tree just in front of him. Time for some action scenes."	15	2636		セン	Bamboo forms the arrow shaft you shoot in front of you.	
筑	ancient harp	I can't play this ancient harp! It's craftsmanship is so mediocre! The bamboo is hard and stiff! Give me a new koto any day of the week.	12	2637		チク	Musical instruments are so mediocre these days. I call for a return to the ancient harps crafted from genuine bamboo.	
篭	cage	The only cage that can keep a dragon is made of bamboo.	16	2638		ロウ	A bamboo cage won't hold a dragon!	
篠	slender bamboo	Mr T uses a stick of slender bamboo to beat his taskmaster that he chased up into the tree.	17	2639		ゾウ	"The wise sensei instructs Mr. T while they perch atop a tree: Oh, you must be supple and thin like the slender bamboo!"	
箸	chopsticks	"Bamboo, lovedoll: At dinner, my lovedoll decided to eat her meal the Japanese way using chopsticks. But well, what a problems she had getting those bamboo shoots into her mouth (which should not be that difficult, I would say!)."	15	2640		チョ	"I've always wanted to use bamboo chopsticks to eat sushi off a naked woman. Unfortunately, there is no woman in my life, so this love doll will have to do."	
纂	redaction	"During post-production of a movie, redaction is required for ""red action"", or action that results in a bloody accident, like when they miscalculated how large an object Spider-Man could hold up with both hands."	20	2641		サン	"Calculate, st bernard, venom: Venom had made an insidious plan to strike at the redaction office of the Daily Bugle, to scare the free press. He plans to leave corpses of dead St.Bernards on every desk of the news office. Now, he still needs to calculate how many St. Bernards are required..."	
竺	bamboo cane	My bamboo cane is collapsible. It can fold into two separate bamboo sticks.	8	2642		ジク	This bamboo cane is too short for me; it's made of only two feet of bamboo.	
箕	winnowing fan	A winnowing fan made of bamboo is used to cool off the basketball player.	14	2643		キ	"The hard working peasants get a little annoyed watching the aristocrats sitting around playing chess, so they start a revolt and whack the chess board and pieces away with their bamboo winnowing baskets.."	
笈	backpack	"I see a panda wearing a backpack, and every so often something inside the backpack reaches out and grabs bamboo. (it’s acutally a baby panda reaching out to grab bamboo to eat)."	9	2644		キュウ	"When I encountered an ravenous panda, I just reached back to my backpack and pulled out two bamboo katanas."	
篇	livraison	"Each livraison (installment) of the scrapbook is delivered by post, and sits resting on your doorstep for when you get home. Of course, it might blow away so the postman has put heavy bamboo blocks on top of it."	15	2645		ヘン	A limited livraison (edition) of manga made of bamboo.	
筈	should	"Should you put bamboo through your tongue? If you don't already know the answer yourself, you shouldn't even ask."	12	2646		カツ	"In some tribes, it is fully expected that you should put bamboo through your tongue."	
簸	winnow	To winnow you need two things: a winnowing fan (no. 2643 箕) and a pelt (to use as a bag to collect the grain you winnowed).	19	2647		ハ	"After Bobby Fischer's 箕 winnowing fan (#2643) winnowed Spassky's bamboo pawn from the other pieces in the famous game three, the rest was history: Spassky returned to Moscow in disgrace & was pelted by fruits & vegetables."	
粕	settlings	Settlings at the bottom of sake are white and made of rice.	11	2648		ハク	"Scrap, waste, settlings. Think of scrap or waste paper - like the confetti or rice thrown at a wedding - it is white."	
糟	lees	The other cadets are really cruel: giving this cadet only the lees of the sake to drink….	17	2649		コウ	"New cadets aren't allowed to drink with the seniors, so they have to settle for the rice lees at the bottom of the empty sake bottles."	
糊	paste	The uncivilized used rice as paste.	15	2650		コ	"It would be uncivilized to eat rice without natto, that delicious bean paste! (I think I just vomitted a little in my mouth)."	
籾	unhulled rice	Unhulled rice still needs a blade taken to it.	9	2651		0	What's all this unhulled rice still doing here? You were supposed to hull this yesterday! Pick up that blade and get to work immediately!	
糠	rice bran	Rice bran is for old people: its benefits to sanity in additional to being delicious rice make it an instant sell.	17	2652		コウ	Rice bran keeps you sane. But only if it's made from real rice. None of that fake stuff.	
糞	excrement	"Rice is easy to digest, so if you poke through your excrement, finding bits of rice is uncommon."	17	2653		フン	"It is uncommon to find rice in your excrement. Corn, on the other hand..."	
粟	foxtail millet	"Maybe the Japanese ought to rethink their nickname for America. Seriously, the only ""rice"" I have seen in the wild west is foxtail millet."	12	2654		ゾク	"West, rice: In the old west there was a special type of plant (it's now extinct): the foxtail millet. It behaved like regular millet, but when somebody wanted to reap it, it ran away as quick as a fox, leaving a small trail of rice."	
繋	link up	This should do the trick: http://tinyurl.com/dzhu4g.	19	2655		ケイ	"In one of those ridiculous sentai TV programs, after the ""car rangers"" fire their missiles at the enemy monster, you can clearly see the thread that pulls them together when they link up to form CAR-RANGER-MON."	
綸	twine	Spidey assists the older ladies at the twine convention by providing them with a continuous line of twine to knit with. They thank him for the twine with some wine.	14	2656		リン	"Spiderman + methodical: If you want to be like Spiderman, you'll have to be methodical and start from the beginning by learning how to make webs with twine. Note: 侖 is an extremely rare kanji meaning ""methodical"", I remember this with: ""A meeting of scrapbookers who are very methodical""."	
絨	carpet yarn	"Spiderman, burgler - money (burglar (#357)): When the old lady returned from visiting the fiesta, she found a burglar in her home tied up with carpet yarn. A note said: Regards from you friendly neighborhood Spiderman. Well, she was not amused when she saw the remains of her carpet."	12	2657		ジュウ	"The burglar isn't getting Spider-Man's money, but he can get tied up with carpet yarn if he wants."	
絆	ties	"Spiderman, half: Since only half of his family was left (aunt May, uncle died), Spiderman kept strong ties with her."	11	2658		ハン	"I must buy some more ties – half of mine are in threads. (Edit: All the kanji dictionaries I have checked classify this character as thread + half. Depending on the font, though, the right side often appears as a variant of 半 with the top two strokes sloping outwards)."	
緋	scarlet	"Spiderman is put in a jail cell by the fashion police for wearing scarlet. (His fellow inmates include Scarlet O'Hara, Scarlett Johansson, Captain Scarlet, The Scarlet Pimpernel, etc)."	14	2659		ヒ	"Frankly Scarlet, I don't give a damn. Here we see Scarlet O'Hara going to visit Rhett in his jail cell (damn those yankees!) wearing her new (green, and velvet incidentally) threads, created from Tara's (the manor) drapes."	
綜	synthesis	"Spiderman, religion: Spiderman discovered that the Scientology religion (which just opened a chapterhouse in his city) was a synthesis of idiotic believes and a little mystery. Everything to obtain large sums of money from its 'believers'."	14	2660		ソウ	Spider-Man's religion is a synthesis of spirituality and scientific proof.	
紐	string	"A vegetarian replaces all his leather bootlaces with string, saying “There’s no sign of the cow in this thread!”."	10	2661		チュウ	"Spider-Man suspects there's a cow walking through his room while he's asleep, but when he wakes up he sees no sign of the cow. He decides to tie string around everything in the room, which will create a boobytrap for the cow."	
紘	chinstrap	"Spiderman tries out for a football team. He fastens his chinstrap and tackles runners with webs from his forearm. 　　　　　　　　　　　　　厷　コウ　(Forearm)　""ムarm""."	10	2662		コウ	Spider-Man poses with his hands on his hips to convey being larger than life.	
纏	summarize	"Spiderman, cave, computer, human legs, soil: To summarize the newest Spiderman comic: Spidy needs to turn off a computer in a cave (countdown clock for nuclear bomb). However, his human legs get stuck in the soil (some kind of quicksand). The situation seems hopeless... but somehow at the end of the comic, Spiderman has saved the day."	21	2663		テン	"To summarize the story of Spiderman, he was a computer geek who lived in a cave. Then he got super powers and his human legs rarely touch the ground anymore."	
絢	gorgeous	"Spider-Man is quite the womanizer. When he sees a hot babe, he whistles and calls, 'Hey, gorgeous, how'd you like to be bound up with Spidey for a decameron?' Unfortunately most of the women he whistles at don't know what a decameron is; some of them think it's a hot car."	12	2664		ケン	"According to society’s twisted ideals, if Black Widow went without eating for a decameron, she would be gorgeous."	
繍	embroidery	"Spiderman solemnly swears that he hates embroidery, but everyone knows he loves it, he's always got the sewing machine out when nobody else is around."	17	2665		シュウ	"Because of the special thread Spiderman uses for embroidery, and the special location from which it is produced, he is always solemn when he does embroidery, because it makes him hemorroidery."	
紬	pongee	"Spiderman, sprout: Pongee is a soft thin woven cloth. Spiderman - a textile buff in his own right- found out that the mold growing on rotting Brussel sprouts may also be used to make pongee. And it's much cheaper than silk!"	11	2666		チュウ	Spiderman decides to try a new diet of sprouts to see how it affects the consistency of his web. To his surprise (150m above ground) a lovely line of pongee comes out instead. Time to think quickly.	
綺	ornate	"Spiderman's a strange guy, wearing such ornate outfits to make himself look 綺麗【きれい】."	14	2667		キ	"SPIDERMAN wears such STRANGE outfits, that they seem almost ORNATE compared to the thugs he captures."	
綾	damask	The rice seedlings notice that Spiderman's blocking their path to the promised land. So they put on da mask which was made of a figured cloth and managed to outsmart spidey.	14	2668		リン	Those rice-seedlings on walking legs had to carry this thread all the way from the middle east to introduce the beautiful damask to the Japanese.	
絃	catgut	The thread with a mysterious origin... hint: its not from a plant!	11	2669		ゲン	"Spiderman tries the mysterious meat threaded into a pasta form at the Korean market... ""You prepared this dish purrrrrfectly!""."	
綻	come apart at the seams	"Even though his costume is coming apart at the seams as he chases the bad guys, Spiderman is still determined to catch them."	14	2670		タン	"Spiderman's costume has come apart at the seams and here he is, mending it in his house, determined to make it stronger than before."	
縞	stripe	"If you wear clothes with vertical stripes, those threads will make you look taller."	16	2671		コウ	"Spiderman, tall: Spiderman seemed taller than he really was, due to the stripes in his uniform. As is to be expected from our textile expert..."	
綬	gimp	No one can accept the fact that Spiderman is a gimp.	14	2672		ジュ	I cannot accept that Spiderman will star in the remake of Forrest Gimp.	
紗	gossamer	"If there are very few threads, then the light will come through and the fabric be considered to be a gossamer."	10	2673		サ	"Because it has too few threads, Spider-Man decided not to use gossamer to make his skin-tight costume."	
舵	rudder	A household spoon is used for the rudder of your model boat.	11	2674		ダ	"Tip: house + spoon : This combination of primitives appears four times in Heisig. REF: snake (#519), rudder (FRAME 2674), prevarication (#2718), Shakyamuni Buddha (#2955)."	
舷	gunwale	The gunwale is perhaps the most mysterious part of a boat for it is neither a gun nor a whale.	11	2675		ゲン	"Gunwale (rhymes with ""tunnel"") is the top edge of the side of a boat, for example the widened lip on the sides of a canoe. The mysterious origin of this part of a boat comes from the strengthened sides of warships that used artillery (it means ""gun ridge"")."	
聯	strung together	My friend's new dangly earrings are interesting--cacti strung together with butterfly cocoons.	17	2676		レン	"While practicing slicing a cactus in half, you accidentally cut Venom from ear to ear, but he's strung together by his tar-like symbiote."	
聡	attentive	Policymakers' ears have to be attentive to the heart of the public.	14	2677		ソウ	"If you open your ears (耳をすませば), you can be attentive to the public's heart. -------------- OR -------------- It only takes one ear that is attentive to the public heart to win them over."	
聘	summons	"Ear, sprout, snare: When the summons reached his ears, he sprang up and started running. However, he suddenly noticed a delicious cooked meal of Brussel sprouts. He started to eat it, but it was snared! Appearantly, his loyalty had been tested and it was clear which was more important to him..."	13	2678		ヘイ	"When my parents asked me to eat my sprouts, I threw a snare at their ears. The next day I received a summons to appear in court."	
耽	addiction	"Fearful that I was addicted to ear piercings, my dad put a crown around one of my legs so that I couldn’t go to the piercing dude."	10	2679		タン	"Ear, crown/human legs (also in sink (#1888)): After they had recovered the body that had been sunk by the mafia, the autopsy revealed that the victim had been addicted to drugs. This, they could see from the form of her ear! I love CSI!"	
耶	exclamation	Quiet!!!! The city walls have ears he exclaimed.	9	2680		ヤ	The city walls have ears!? Did you say that with an exclamation or question mark?	
蚤	flea	"Fleas jump onto your crotch, take two drops of blood, and then go on their merry way: what vile insects!"	10	2681		ソウ	"Right side of boisterous (#1985) (but without the drops there). A flea is an insect that is depicted here as jumping from (or to) a crotch (the two drops). Note: this is indeed flea, not louse, which has its own character (虱). I'm not sure of the stroke order, but by the rule of drawing from top to bottom, the crotch drop should come first. The louse (虱) then is of course a drop-like insect that attaches itself to body hairs by little hooks."	
蟹	crab	"The crab isn’t truly an insect, but certainly looks like one. They’re real tasty, too, but you have to unravel it if you want to eat it."	19	2682		カイ	"You unravel a crab leg, but insects fall out of it. It's probably too old to be edible."	
蛋	protein	"At the zoo, most animals think of insects as just good sources of protein."	11	2683		タン	Insects are fed to the critters at the zoo for protein.	
蟄	hibernation	"Rather than die, tenacious insects go down into hibernation."	17	2684		チツ	Many animals go into hibernation over the winter due to lack of food. The most tenacious remain and dig in the icy ground for insects.	
蝿	housefly	I unbind my tortoise to let him catch that pesky insect the housefly.	15	2685		ヨウ	The housefly was bugging the tortoise so it tucked its head inside.	
蟻	ant	"The ant is an insect of righteousness, putting the group before its individual concerns."	19	2686		ギ	"In Aesop's stories, the ant is often considered righteous."	
蜂	bee	A bee is an insect with a pointy (see summit (#1562)) stinger.	13	2687		ホウ	The insect that interrupted our tryst (#2417) was a bee!	
蝋	wax	"While I’m game-hunting, I cover my dogs with wax so that they won’t be bother by insects."	14	2688		ロウ	I like to go game-hunting (#1940) for exotic insects and then store them in wax.	
蝦	shrimp	Shrimp are the only “insects” that I can eat in my spare time: anything else requires way too much willpower.	15	2689		カ	"Tip: Many different Kanji for shrimp: 蝦,海老, 鰕､蛯. This particular Kanji is likely to be seen as the old name for the Ainu: Ezo 蝦夷, and the land associated with them Ezochi 蝦夷地 (now called Hokkaido). A kanji you are likely to see for Shrimp on menus and such is 海老(えび). Those kanji are also used for Tiger Prawns 車海老(くるまえび) Co."	
蛸	octopus	The octopus holds up two of his legs so that they look like antennas and then walks on the other six. He bears a strong resemblance to an insect when he does that.	13	2690		ソウ	"Insect, candle: As insects are drawn to candles, so, also are deep sea divers drawn to the legend of the huge octopus living in the deep waters of the sea. (They also don't come back)."	
螺	screw	"螺　(にし) is a fresh water mollusk with a shell like a screw. When the mollusk has died the shell is used by insects like a house. Thus, insects accumulate in the screw shell."	17	2691		ラ	Insects accumulate if a screw is missing.	
蝉	cicada	"Cicadas are simple insects: they just pop out of the ground, mate, and die, albeit only every ten years or so."	10	2692		セン	"The cicada is a simple insect, making noise, mating, and dying."	
蛙	frog	"There he sits, eating insects with his long tongue and blending in with the green ivy. It may no be easy being green, but it is easy being a frog."	12	2693		ア	A frog hides in the ivy to catch insects.	
蛾	moth	The moth is an insect that affects your ego by eating holes in your clothes.	13	2694		ギ	The moth is an insect with an ego -- always looking for the (lime)light.	
蛤	clam	An insect fits right into the clam's mouth before it clamps shut.	12	2695		コウ	"For contraband purposes, I tried to fit insects into a clam, but that didn’t work out too well."	
蛭	leech	"The leech is an insect that sucks on you, but good luck reaching climax with all that blood being lost."	12	2696		シツ	The climax of this little insect's life is sucking your blood. Leeches suck.	
蛎	oyster	"An insect crosses ten thousand cliffs to make it to sea, only to be eaten by an oyster."	11	2697		レイ	"Slogan at The Cliffs Piano Oyster Bar: ""Because it is ten thousand times better to have oysters on your piano than crabs on your organ""."	
罫	ruled lines	"Keeping my eye fixed directly over the paper, I hold down the ivy and melt the strands with my magic wand. Viola, ruled lines are created! I bet most people think a machine does it."	13	2698		ケイ	"The cyclops couldn't make ruled lines with his wooden wand because it wasn't smooth, so he had to use a square jewel."	
罵	insult	"In ancient Japan, the most grievous insult was to poke a rival's horse in the eye (consider how rare an expensive a steed was in those days). It was the final step in preparation for a duel to the death."	16	2699		バ	Giving the evil eye while calling them a horse's ass.	
袈	stole	"In Japanese RPGs, you are well advised to add a stole to your clothing as a ""freebie"" way to add defensive points without swapping out some other garment. But since you can't find them in the shops, you have to ""stole"" that stole from a glamorous NPC who is ostensibly there to aid your quest."	11	2700		ケ	That Buddhist priest stole that stole: it was like he subtracted some clothes from me and added some clothes to him.	
裟	monk's sash	A monk's sash is a garment that has grains of sand in it from beachside meditations.	13	2701		サ	The monk stashes grains of sand in his sash and hides it under his garment. Probably emptied the hourglass to hasten dinner time.	
戴	accept humbly	"At Thanksgiving, it’s uncommon for people to accept humbly the food: most people just dig in."	18	2702		タイ	"You're invited to a Thanksgiving party in Japan! Awesome! You're so happy that your Japanese friends are trying to make you feel at home (you've been homesick recently). You sit down to the table, and they bring out some..uh...uncommon food. Really uncommon. Like just imagine the most uncommon Thanksgiving food ever, and that's what you're given (i don't know, a frisbee or something?). Of course, you have to be Japanese and accept humbly their food."	
截	incision	"I’ll do the honors! So, I grabbed the knife and made an incision into the Thanksgiving turkey."	14	2703		セツ	The surgeon scrubs up & puts on plastic gloves before making his first incision in the Thanksgiving turkey. 9th of 14 RtK3 turkeys lost to other primitives.	
哉	I wonder	"At Thanksgiving, there’s a pretty common bet: I wonder how much you can stuff into your mouth!"	9	2704		サイ	"In rikaichan this means ""how! what! alas!"" . Alas! How did my mouth end up unfed at this thanksgiving feast? I wonder."	
詢	counsel	"In order to provide superior counsel, I spoke to him for ten days."	13	2705		ジュン	I was counselled for ten days about my bad language. It was f**king horrible.	
諄	polite	"When receiving a gift, you should say something polite."	15	2706		シュン	How about 'tedious' instead. Think of all those tedious things you have to say when you receive something.	
讐	vendetta	"In many Sicilian villages, when words are spoken which can never be taken back, a vendetta exists until this retribution - ""a turkey for a turkey"" - can be extracted."	23	2707		シュウ	Two turkeys (one from Foster Farms and the other from Butterball) exchange words that cause a vendetta.	
諌	remonstrate	Words in the East remonstrate those who stand out.	15	2708		カン	"While talking to an eastern man: ""I will remonstrate to you how to draw this kanji."" ""Don't you mean 'demonstrate'?"" ""No, I mean REMONSTRATE!"" remonstrated the man."	
謎	riddle	Words meant to lead you astray are those of a riddle.	16	2709		メイ	I led Socrates astray with my riddle. He quit philosophizing and thought only about the riddle.	
諒	verify	"When a Japanese person says they'll meet you at the capital, it's best to verify whether they mean Tokyo or Kyoto."	15	2710		リョウ	"You sure that the capital said that? Sorry, but I'll have to go verify that."	
讃	compliment	Compliments are words of approval.	22	2711		サン	"The words spoken between the two husbands who approve of how each spends their wife's hard earned money are nothing but compliments. ""Good job old chap!"" ""A fine car you purchased on her credit!"" ""What nice designer pants, won't she be miffed!""."	
誰	who?	"Do you remember that song where they say ""Who let the turkeys out!? Gobble.. gobble.. gobble""?"	15	2712		スイ	"[who; someone; somebody] You're alone when, suddenly, you think you hear someone speaking. ""Who's there?"", you say, but there is no answer. Then you find out it was only a turkey gobbling. You feel relieved (and ashamed to tell this story). (Based on raulir)."	
訊	query	"Word, needle, fishhook: The prisoner didn't speak a word in response to our query, so we got out our needles and fishhooks to get things going."	10	2713		ジン	"I needed to query as to how much ten fishhooks costs so I said to the shopkeeper ""How much for ten fishhooks?""."	
訣	split up	"When you split up from your partner, you say words that cut things off for good, like a guillotine."	11	2714		ケツ	"Words, guillotine: The prisoner was given the opportunity to speak a final word, before the guillotine would do its' work. He made a morbid joke, saying to his chest: ""Here's head speaking. Let's split up.""."	
詣	visit a shrine	"To fat, effete Japanophiles (cheerily munching on 肉まん in the back of the tour bus) hearing the words of the tour guide ""Now we will visit a shrine"" elicits squeals of joy. ""Oooooh, how absolutely delicious!""."	13	2715		ケイ	You visit a shrine to say your wishes and offer delicious offering to the gods.	
諦	give up	The words of the sovereign king inspire the people: never give up! Never surrender! Okay...maybe it wasn't a king.	16	2716		テイ	"Anytime I think to give up Japanese, I remember giving my word that I would become sovereign of Japanese! And I watch あきら to get pumped about it. Note: to give up - 諦める is read あきらめる)."	
詮	elucidate	Words that tell you the results of the whole story really elucidate.	13	2717		セン	"Elucidate me. Tell me, in your own words, the whole story."	
詑	prevarication	"In my house, when I prevaricate (say false words) my mother smacks me with a nasty big cooking spoon."	12	2718		イ	"Your girlfriend texts you and asks what you're doing. You're out with another girl on a date, but you can't tell her that! So you go with a prevarication. ""n/much just stng @ hm. u?"". ""o ok"", she replies. Looks like your prevarication worked! You go home later, only to find her sitting there, waiting for you - maybe you shouldn't have brought the girl back home this time..."	
誼	familiarity	"After someone moves into the house next door, and after you give them a best regards gift (something they can fill their shelves with) the words you can now speak are those of familiarity. No more ""始めまして"" ect."	15	2719		ギ	"When you tell your buddy, ""Best regards to the wife"", you don't care about his wife. Unless, you know, you had some ""familiarity"" with her."	
謬	fallible	"Check-up (check-up (#1724)), feathers: When, during the check-up, I noticed that the doctor had feathers sticking out of different bodyparts, I decided that his diagnosis would be fallible, since he obviously was a nut."	18	2720		ビュウ	"At my check-up, the doctor tickled me with feathers and I laughed. Doc says it means I'm fallible."	
詫	beg pardon	"""I'm going out with an otaku"" ""I beg your pardon! What did you just say?!""."	13	2721		タ	"A strange person suddenly emerges from the shower in your house, naked and bald, saying how you need to help him because his only lock of hair got washed down the drain. ""Beg your pardon?""."	
諏	advise	You should take the words of someone who advises you with a grain of salt.	15	2722		シュ	"Words, take: The gnarled old man gave some advise to the newlywed couple: ""Just take my words of advise: try to keep your relationship interesting.""."	
諺	proverb	Proverbs are profound words of wisdom so simply put even a lad can understand their meanings.	16	2723		ゲン	"Words, lad: The lad keeping watch at the cliff came running to town and began pouring out words. Leader: ""What? I don't understand a word you're saying. Oh yeah, now I remember... you're the lad who speaks in proverbs.""."	
誹	slander	"If you slander someone with your words, you could end up in jail - Jeffrey Archer."	15	2724		ヒ	SLANDER is WORDS that can UNdo one's good reputation.	
謂	so-called	"That so-called specialist's exact words were ""don't worry, its just an upset stomach!"" When it turned out to be cancer, his words dried up quick."	16	2725		イ	The so called flattering WORDS made me sick to my STOMACH.	
諜	secret agent	"Words, generation, tree: You see that guy over there having words with that tree? That's a secret agent. And you see that tree there? That's a secret agent too: the new generation of secret agents is not limited to the human race anymore."	16	2726		チョウ	Secret agents are taught never to chatter (#2158) 喋. When their 'mouths' open only carefully chosen words emerge.	
註	footnote	A study Bible has many footnotes under the words of the Lord.	12	2727		チュウ	The footnote's words were buried so far below the page that I had to pull out a candlestick in order to read it.	
譬	parable	A parable is like putting ketchup on words to make them easier to swallow.	20	2728		ヒ	"Ketchup, words: Do you know the parable of ""The Ketchup and the Holy Word""? No? Well, it's about a boy who spilled ketchup on the Holy Word and then got punished by a priest. Lesson: don't use ketchup above the scripture."	
轟	rumble	Many cars rumble through the streets as the bousouzoku ride through.	21	2729		コウ	"When you get three cars going at once at a monster truck rally, you can feel the ground rumble."	
輔	reinforce	"Car, dog tag: A car hung with hundreds of military dog tags passed by the police station. The officer on duty immediately called in for reinforcements: the notorious veteran soldier killer had just passed by."	14	2730		ホ	"Two kinds of reinforcement the army needs: military cars (tanks) and, of course, offspring (#2097): more soldiers."	
輻	spoke	"Wealthy people tend to have cars with solid gold spokes, sometimes they even spin with the car's not in motion, kinda cool."	16	2731		フク	"Wealthy people can afford vintage cars, which have wheels with spokes in them. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:1926_Bentley.jpg."	
輯	assemble	"When they offered a really cheap Porsche, my mouth dropped open and I bought that car immediately, but if I had had my ears open, I would have heard, ""Some assembly may be required.""."	16	2732		シュウ	You must interpret the assembley instructions carefully in order to build your own car [or you could end up losing a finger]. interpretation (#2263).	
貌	countenance	"He counters, ""Your legs are so white, all I would have to do is apply some black and they would be the perfect countenance of a skunk!""."	14	2733		ボウ	"Skunk, white, human legs: You should have seen the shocked countenance on the girls' face when she saw the skunk nibbling away at the white human legs of the corpse she found in the woods. (Because of that, and the smell of course)."	
豹	panther	Imagine that in the cartoon series the pink panther is in a dispute with a skunk. Picture the skunk filling a ladle with its stink liquid and then emptying it onto a snoozing pink panther.	10	2734		ヒョウ	"Someone drew a white line down the female black panther's back by pouring white paint from a ladle, and then Pepe mistook the panther for a skunk and started chasing her."	
賎	despicable	"When they toss metal, that's all fine and dandy, but when those float people toss down shellfish, ugh!, that's just despicable!"	13	2735		セン	"Money, float: It's despicable. They throw down money off the carnaval float, while there are so many people in this world living in poverty. Just give it to them. Despicable!"	
貼	affix	Fortune teller writes your fortune on a piece of paper and tells you to affix it to a shell and throw into the ocean for it to come true. Picture licking the back of the shell like a stamp and affixing it to the fortune.	12	2736		テン	"I gots a fix for your current bad luck: just pass some extra clams over to the fortune teller, and they will make sure you have a very bright fate instore."	
貰	get	You get money from the generation above you.	12	2737		セイ	"You get the generation above you to give you money. (note: I've modified the keyword a bit after having just read ""Making Sense of Japanese"" because it's important to me to integrate into もらう the idea that getting in this sense is to get someone else to give it to you."	
賂	graft	"It might sound simple to bribe someone, but then you have to graft the guy above him and the guy below him, and soon you're just giving shells to each and everyone!"	13	2738		ロ	"When I was caught by the police doing some graft (graffiti), I gave each cop some clams and told them to be on their way. 賄賂【わいろ】 bribe."	
賑	bustling	Bruce Lee has money because he is always bustling about.	14	2739		シン	Bruce Lee made his clams in the bustling city of Hong Kong.	
躓	stumble	"At the border crossing, a man was trying to smuggle a controlled substance in his wooden leg. He would have made it too had he not stumbled and spilled the contents."	22	2740		チ	"Wooden leg, substance: The pirate was in port to visit the red light district. It was a difficult going in there with his wooden leg: he stumbled over passed-out people and slippery substances were smearing the streets."	
蹄	hoof	"After He lost a leg in combat, our sovereign king got a wooden leg as a replacement. Since He thought it was a little boring, he added a hoof for kicks. (Wow, that was totally unintentional, I like)."	16	2741		テイ	Our sovereign is horse-crazy and even had her own wooden leg fitted with a hoof.	
蹴	kick	The soccer player was concerned that his peg leg would affect his ability to kick.	19	2742		シュク	"I kick with my FEET in the CAPITAL of all the ONE LEGGED CHIHUAHUAS. It is such a great fun, since they cannot kick me back! lol."	
蹟	vestiges	The man who lost his leg in a accident now has to attach a wooden leg to the vestiges of his old leg. He only has himself to blame for drinking and driving.	18	2743		セキ	"Upon finding the vestiges of your peg leg, you blame it on poor craftsmanship."	
跨	straddle	The amputee boasts about how the ladies just love to straddle his wooden leg.	13	2744		コ	Same right side as boast (#1244). The big one that got away (so big you couldn't straddle it) took your leg with it. コ カ また.がる またが.る また.ぐ be; sit or stand astride; extend over; straddle.	
跪	kneel	It's dangerous to kneel with a wooden leg. It might fall off.	13	2745		キ	It's dangerous to kneel before a pirate with a peg leg: They might take offense.	
醤	soy sauce	The leader's whiskey bottle is filled with soy sauce since he doesn't drink alcohol but likes to pretend he's one of the boys by making a strained face when he takes a swig.	17	2746		ショウ	The leaders of Japan use to trade soy sauce for whiskey when foreigners first entered Japan.	
醍	whey	"When filling a whiskey bottle with a whey mixture, you've got to get the proportions just so or it will just taste like curdled milk."	16	2747		ダイ	"If you hold the whiskey bottle just so, it scoops up the 'isk' out of the 'whiskey' and you're left with 'whey'. 'No way!' 'Whey!'."	
酎	hooch	"While the keyword is ""hooch"", this usually means 焼酎. It has similar effect as whiskey and sniffing glue has: you get intoxicated."	10	2748		チュウ	"This thick, illicitly-made beverage is actually just whiskey mixed with glue!"	
醐	ghee	Drinking ghee out of a whiskey bottle is rather uncivilized (#2470).	16	2749		ゴ	GHEE (clarified butter) if stored in a WHISKEY BOTTLE or some other air tight container will not get OLD and has a shelf life of many MONTHS at room temperature. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ghee.	
醒	awakening	On awakening the first thing I notice is a (nearly empty) whiskey bottle by my bed. Then I see the stars are still shining. “I think I’ll go back to sleep and try awakening again later.”.	16	2750		セイ	You'll need an awakening after the whiskey bottle makes you see stars.	
醇	strong saké	"Whiskey bottle, receive: When you receive a bottle of whiskey from a Japanese person, large chance it is strong saké. It seems that giving 'sissy' saké is considered impolite."	15	2751		ジュン	"Now we know why the tall child is so 諄 polite (#2706) & 惇 considerate (#2279): the effect of the the strong saké. He receives it at cost in the 廓 licensed quarters (#2235) he set up in the cave, of course."	
麺	noodles	There is a certain restaurant in West-Shinjuku that serves its noodles made of BARLEY in a MASK instead of a plate. I love these theme-restaurants!	16	2752		メン	Don't be fooled! That's just barley masquerading as noodles.	
麹	malt	Malt made from barley is often bound up with rice for brewing.	15	2753		キク	"This means kouji mould, so I think malt is a poor keyword. Sake, shochu and other East Asian spirits use this mould in place of yeast, which is used to make most other alcoholic spirits in the world. Mould and yeast are two different types of fungus. Yeast might have been a better keyword, as it is the organism doing the fermenting. Story: Kouji mould is grown on rice specially bound up to form a starter culture. To make mugishochu, the starter culture is added to a barley mash."	
釦	button	A button is metal that requires an opening in order to function.	11	2754		コウ	"Once you can get the metal button through the mouth, it's fastened."	
銚	keg	A big metal keg portends a good party.	14	2755		チョウ	The most expensive keg ever made: solid gold with tortoise-shell inlay.	
鋤	plow	"Tilling a field by hand is very tough. A handy piece of metal to help get the job done, is the plow."	14	2756		ジョ	"15 strokes, not 14!"	
鍋	pot	A gruesome kind of cauldron that Snape might have used is a metal pot in the shape of a skull.	17	2757		カ	A metall pot with non-thermoconductive jawbones as handholds.	
鏑	arrowhead	Metal arrowheads are considered antiques.	19	2758		テキ	I have an antique arrowhead made of solid gold.	
鋸	handsaw	A handsaw is a piece of metal that helps you fix up the place you reside in.	16	2759		キョ	"Metal, reside: In that mansion resides a creepy man. In the last year, a few people have gone missing, so at one night we decided to sneak into his toolshed. There we found a metal handsaw and other equipment, all covered with bloodstains..."	
錐	awl	I used a metal awl to drill right through this here turkey: it was so much easier than using a knife to cut it open!	16	2760		スイ	The only way to hobble the gobble of the metal turkey is to run him through with a golden awl.	
鍵	key	The metal thing you need in order to enter things you build is a key.	17	2761		ケン	"鍵盤key (#2761) ケン, かぎ ... Parts: 金, 建 ... Story: The most important Metal in any building is the lock on the front door, and without a key you ain't getting in. This kanji means both lock and key to most Japanese people. 錠前 is technically the word for lock but it's not used in daily conversation. ... 熟語: ... cf: 錠前."	
鍬	hoe	A metal object often used in autumn is the hoe.	17	2762		ショウ	The hoe is a metal tool used in preparation for the autumn harvest.	
鋲	rivet	Metal soldiers (toy ones) make good rivets.	15	2763		0	"In medieval times, soldiers used metal rivets to build their suits of armor."	
錫	tin	"Tin is soft, bends easily, and melts at a low temperature. Hence tin is written as the metal that is easy to work with."	16	2764		セキ	Metal tin cans are sometimes far from easy to open.	
錨	anchor	An anchor is metal planted like a seedling.	16	2765		ビョウ	"""The golden city of Ankor Wat"" was misunderstood as ""The golden seedling of anchor cat (#244)""."	
釘	nail	A nail is a metal spike.	10	2766		テイ	"A nail is a metal, well, nail."	
鑓	javelin	A javelin is a piece of metal used for dispatching enemies – or athletics judges if they’re not careful.	21	2767		0	A javelin is a metal object you dispatch.	
鋒	sword's point	A pointy (see my explanation in 峰 summit (#1562)) bit of metal is a sword's point.	15	2768		ホウ	A metal sword's point is pointed at the lovers having a tryst. Looks like someone got caught!	
鎚	hammer	The maestro grabs a metal hammer to get back at those chasing him down the road.	17	2769		ツイ	"The hammer is the same as the wooden hammer (#2477), except it's made out of metal."	
鉦	carillion	The church carillion was composed of metal bells that informed when it was the correct time to go to church.	13	2770		セイ	"Wtf is a carillion? How about ""gong"" instead. Picture a game show where they bang on the gong every time you get the correct answer. Or, if you want to go with the book explanation, carillion is the ""western"" bell which is struck from the inside rather than outside. Story: just like everything else in the East (writing, utensils, etc) bells are harder to work than necessary, being hit from the outside and all. The correct way is to put the gong on the inside, makes it so much easier."	
錆	rust	"The easiest place to spot rust is when it grows on blue metal. All of my cars have been blue, and as soon as the first red rust appears, its off to the scrapheap."	16	2771		ショウ	The blue oxidation that forms on metals like copper is a form of rust.	
鍾	cluster	The heavy metal band explode cluster bombs as part of their act.	17	2772		ショウ	1) Metal seems more heavy when it's balled up in a cluster.2) Fans cluster around the stage at the heavy metal concert.	
鋏	scissors	"On the St. Bernard assembly line, the dogs pass by and the workers clip their fur with metal scissors."	15	2773		キョウ	"At the grand opening, they had metal scissors so big that it required two people to cut the ribbon and let the first batch of customers in."	
閃	flash	"The lesbians flash a person with their ""gates""."	10	2774		セン	"The flasher hung out by the gates. Whenever someone emerged, the flasher opened his cloak, flashed the unsuspecting person, and ran off in a flash!"	
悶	agony	"The gates suddenly slam shut, squashing your heart. Needless to say, this is agony."	12	2775		モン	"Because her child is out several hours past his curfew, the mother waits in agony at the gates, her heart pounding as she imagines the worst."	
閤	side gate	"If you can't fit through the gates due to your size, try the side gate."	14	2776		コウ	"Apart from the big gates of hell, there are many side gates leading out of hell. But they're designed to always be too little for the person trying to escape to fit through. Invented by the devil to drive the humans to despair."	
闇	pitch dark	"In the pitch dark, I can hear the sound of the lesbians rubbing their gates together."	17	2777		アン	"Through the gates of hell there is no sound, no light, its all pitch dark."	
雫	trickle	"Is it raining? Hmm...I can see some clouds up there, but I can't feel much down here: must be just a trickle."	11	2778		ダ	Rain trickles downwards.	
霞	haze	Jimi Hendrix works as a weather forcaster in his spare time. Today he predicts a (purple) haze.	17	2779		カ	What a coincidence that work should give me time off only days that have rain or haze but no sun.	
翰	quill	"How to obtain quills for free: Wait for a misty day, then under cover of the mist creep up on an unsuspecting bird and quickly cover it with your umbrella. The bird will flap around wildly trying to escape and while doing so will shed a number of feathers. You can use these as quills."	16	2780		カン	The latest quills are feathers with an umbrella-like point that sprays mist you can write with.	
斡	auspices	"Under the auspices of the local observatory, we looked at the Big Dipper on a misty night, huddled under an umbrella."	14	2781		アツ	"Under the auspices of NASA, we explored the Big Dipper -- it was misty but NASA placed a giant umbrella over the Big Dipper to keep us dry."	
鞍	saddle	A saddle is leather that helps you relax on horseback.	15	2782		アン	"Save a horse, ride your woman inside your house in a leather saddle instead. (Just to pick up competition with mantixen's story ^_^)."	
鞭	whip	There's a leather section in the convenience store now – that's where I got this whip.	18	2783		ベン	A whip is leather that makes others do things at your convenience.	
鞘	saddle straps	"Originally, the leather saddle straps were for holding candles, but now they're more commonly used for holding swords, like scabbards."	16	2784		ショウ	A scabbard is a leather sheath that should to resemble the blade it's going to hold.	
鞄	briefcase	The first briefcase was a piece of leather used to wrap documents.	14	2785		ハク	The businessman likes to make out he's important but the only thing his leather briefcase keeps wrapped up his the lunch his wife made.	
靭	pliable	"A leather blade would make for a poor sword, because it's too pliable."	12	2786		ジン	A leather blade is liable to be too pliable to be viable in a fight.	
鞠	terminate	"Wtf terminate? This is ""ball"". Use ""leather ball"" for keyword, imagine a leather american football packed with bound up rice."	17	2787		キク	Rice bound up with leather makes a good hacky sack. The game terminates when the ball touches the ground. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kemari.	
頓	immediate	Ever chopped the head off an earthworm? Notice how it will grow back immediately! Beware the killer earthworms...	13	2788		トン	"When someone in the barracks tells you to come immediately, you'll lose your head for sure トン トツ にわか.に とん.と つまず.く とみ.に ぬかずく suddenly; immediately; in a hurry."	
顛	overturn	The DNA evidence reveals the truth about the crime but its too late to overturn the sentence now - they already chopped off the innocent prisoners head.	19	2789		テン	"If you come to learn the truth, you can overturn any unjust verdict on its head."	
穎	brush tip	A cheap brush tip is just wheat attached to the head of a spoon.	16	2790		エイ	Attach a head of wheat to the handle of a spoon and voila! A brush tip that can draw a へのへのもへじhead--if little else.	
頃	about that time	"An alarm clock with a unique design: You set it for, say, 7:00 am, and at about that time the clock reaches out with a spoon and hits you on the head."	11	2791		ケイ	After spooning for hours it's about that time he got some head. Dayum woman.	
頬	cheek	"Your cheeks contain your jawbones, which are known as the ""scissors of the head.""."	15	2792		キョウ	The Joker from Batman had his cheeks cut with scissors to give him that eternal smile. Now the Joker isn't right in the head.	
頗	exceedingly	"Donald Trump is exceedingly wealthy, but wears a really bad toupee -- he has an exceedingly large collection of pelts to place on his head."	14	2793		ハ	"Pelt, head: The guy had an exceedingly quick hairgrowth. That's why it always seemed like he was carrying a pelt around his head."	
頌	accolade	Accolades are bestowed on your head in public.	13	2794		ショウ	You gotta wear your public head when you receive accolades -- inside you're proud as can be but you gotta keep the cool with your public head.	
顎	chin	Your chin is the part of your head under your nostrils that forms the double snare that is your jaw.	18	2795		ガク	Left side is crocodile primative. crocodile's head's most prominent feature is his jaw.	
頚	neck and throat	I soiled my ヌde crotch when I got head and stuck it all the way down her neck and throat.	14	2796		ケイ	Your neck and throat gag as the smell of soiled crotch hits your head.	
餌	feed	Food made of ears is animal feed.	14	2797		ジ	Do you know Mike Tayson favorite feed? Ears! He eats ears!	
餐	repast	Remember that dazzling evening where you found the magic wand and used it on your crotch to make it bigger? Well this time you use the wand to disguise your little guy as food so that she thinks it's a repast. dazzling (#2543).	16	2798		サン	What dazzling food! This shall be the most splendid repast yet!	
饗	feast	"After journeying the world wide, I returned to my hometown and was met with an incredible feast."	22	2799		キョウ	Hometown food.	
蝕	eclipse	"To enjoy watching the eclipse, you go on a picnic with your friends. But due to the dim light, you accidentally pick up and eat an insect."	14	2800		ショク	You eat an insect by accident while watching the jaw-dropping eclipse.	
飴	sweets	The only food at the pedestal is sweets to keep the lecturer's energy up.	13	2801		イ	"Of all the foods, sweets are definitely the ones kids put on a pedestal."	
餅	mochi	"Call your friend and he answers the phone ""Mochi, mochi!"" whatever he is eating sure is making it hard to understand. I will puzzle over the content of our conversation for some time to come."	14	2802		ヘイ	"Mochi ice cream is a puzzling food, I still have no idea how they get that ice cream in there, but it sure tastes good."	
駕	stretcher	"This man is too heavy! We can't move the stretcher! Quick, add a team of horses to the ambulance!"	15	2803		カ	"The final addition to the Trojan Horse was a stretcher (laid across the top). Hey, if the plan doesn't work, better be safe than sorry!"	
騨	piebald	"Yep, old Piebald was the simplest horse in the book, just sitting there, eating bald pies."	19	2804		タン	"Being just black and white, the piebald is a simple horse."	
馳	rush	Use a scorpion to make a horse rush.	13	2805		チ	"The soldiers in the Trojan Horse were supposed to wait several hours before coming out, but when they spotted a scorpion in the horse with them, they all rushed out at once."	
騙	cheat	"This character is だます, which means to trick or fool someone. The Greeks tricked (cheated) the Trojans by hiding in the Trojan Horse, which actually had a secret door from which the hidden soldiers would emerge. It was a brilliant tactic that would be recorded in the tomes of history."	19	2806		ヘン	"I got caught by my ex- with a pack of Trojans and a Hentai mag... of course she broke up with me, how the hell could I have convinced her I was not a cheat?!?"	
馴	tame	"The guy who said that you can take a horse to a river, but you can't make it drink obviously has never encountered a tame horse."	13	2807		ジュン	"The process to getting a tame horse is a bit like getting a tame Christian - baptizization! you take it into the river at a young age (just after it's born is best) and dunk it in until it is almost drowned. Then at the last possible moment, when its life is flashing before its eyes (good baptizers know when this is), you pull it back above water. The first thing it sees is its ""rescuer"" and ""savior"", and it will be tame and follow you for the rest of its life."	
駁	rebuttal	"Wolverine's had charges placed on him for murdering a horse, but he make's a rebuttal stating that he couldn't have been in two different places at the same time (i.e. There cannot exist two Wolverines). He was having dinner with his Aunt Margaret at the time, it's impossible."	14	2808		ハク	"Trojan horse, 2 sheafs: Proponents of taking the Trojan Horse into the city employed convincing arguments in their rebuttal. They put 2 sheafs next to the Trojan Horse and put them on fire. 'You see, if it were a trap, and enemies were inside, they would surely come out right now.' However, during the rebuttal, nobody noticed the caughing coming from inside the Trojan Horse...."	
駈	gallop	The team of horses slowed to a gallop as they started up the hill.	15	2809		ク	"Trojan Horse, hill: The anchoring of the Trojan Horse had broken, and now it was accelerating down the hill. To save the men inside, riders were galloping down the hill to get them out in time."	
驢	donkey	"The team of horses is nervously asking a tiger not to eat them. ""Don't worry"", says the tiger, ""over in that paddyfield I can see my favourite dish – donkey!""."	26	2810		ロ	The team of horses ran when they saw the tiger. But the stubborn donkey continued drinking from his dish in the open field. Talk about easy prey.	
鰻	eel	The only fish that Nelson Manadala got to eat in prison was うなぎ eel...sounds like punishment to me!	22	2811		マン	Manga fish: picture a manga version of an eel and you're done.	
鯛	sea bream	The sea bream （たい） is a fish that often goes around the circumference of a 回転寿司（かいてんずし） a number of たいmes.	19	2812		チョウ	Sea Bream (fish) found on the circumference of Australia and New Zealand waters.	
鰯	sardine	"This is a weak fish -- you just open a can of sardines and there they are, weak and defenseless, ready to be eaten."	21	2813		0	"Due to its small size, the sardine is a weak fish."	
鱒	trout	"Fish, revered: The fish tribe revered a fat trout, living in an aquarium in the temple. One morning, they woke up, smelling a funny smell. It appeared as if a jungle explorer had found the trout's temple...."	23	2814		ソン	Trout are a fish often revered for their beauty (especially rainbow trout).	
鮭	salmon	"Salmon are fish that go over ivy trying to get back to their breeding grounds, killing bears along the way."	17	2815		カイ	"さけ, salmon are fish that go to higher ground (ground on ground) to spawn."	
鮪	tuna	"Tuna is the fish that posesses the most toxins (heavy metals, pesticides, mercury)."	17	2816		キ	Maguro tuna is a must-have (possess) fish.	
鮎	sweet smelt	"A fish arrives at the fortune-teller's who, without looking, says ""Welcome, Sweet Smelt"". ""That's amazing"", says the fish, ""how did you know I was a sweet smelt?"" ""Well, most fish smell bad, but you smelt sweet.""."	16	2817		デン	"The fortune teller turned to me smiling, ""Ah you (アユ) will do well. I can sense the sweet smell of success. And what better way to celebrate than with that sweetest of fish the sweet smelt!""."	
鯵	horse mackerel	"Fish, visit: Mother to daughter: ""I bought you a hors..."". The girls started a joyous screaming. ""Let's visit it"", the girl says. Daughter follows mother to.. the kitchen, showing her the fish she bought. Mother: ""I wanted to tell you that I bought a horse mackerel for dinner!""."	19	2818		ソウ	The horse mackerel is the fish that is nonplussed – it isn't sure whether it's a horse or a mackerel.	
鱈	cod	Cod is a fish that is packed in snow to reach the inland parts of Japan.	22	2819		セツ	"たら, cod is a beautiful fish whose flesh is the colour and texture of snow."	
鯖	mackerel	Holy mackarel! That fish just turned blue!	19	2820		セイ	"Fish, blue: After the young girl found that disappointing mackerel fish (see story horse mackerel (#2818)), she felt a bit blue."	
鮫	shark	Ever noticed how tiny fish will often mingle around a shark for protection?	17	2821		コウ	A shark tries to mingle with other fish to get close enough to eat them.	
鰹	bonito	The bonito is a fish with strict preparation procedures for making 出汁（だし） and 鰹節（かつおぶし）.	22	2822		ケン	"Fish, strict: La Isla Bonito. Madonna is very strict on the type of fish imported to the island. Only the best is good enough..."	
鰍	bullhead	"Fish, autumn: Old man to his son: ""You are bullheaded if you think you can catch a bullhead fish in the middle of autumn. It's out of season!""."	20	2823		シュウ	"Perhaps a bit of a misnomer. Bullhead is a river fish (カジカ). This kanji is most likely to refer to young Japanese yellowtail or amberjack. It is a fish of many names depending on age: fry (もじゃこ), young (鰍・いなだ or 魬・はまち), mature (鰤・ぶり). I suppose these kanji might crop up on a fish menu. STORY: Young Amberjack is not at its best in summer. Eat from autumn onwards (when it becomes more fatty). Also its tail is amber - the colour of autumn leaves."	
鰐	alligator	"""Dude! What happened to your chin?"" ""Well, I was out fishing...""."	20	2824		ガク	Saltwater crocs swim in the sea like fish. Right side = crocodile primative. Pictograph - 2 big eyes and one massive snare for a mouth.	
鮒	crucian	"Due to its oxygenating properties, it is crucial that you adhere to a crucian fish if you plan on spending a long time underwater."	16	2825		ホ	The crucian fish adheres strongly to Crucianism principles.	
鮨	sushi	Japanese consider fish to be most delicious when eaten as sushi.	17	2826		シ	SUSHI is FISH that is DELICIOUS.	
鰭	fish fin	"Fish, old man, sun: An ominous fish fin approaches the old man, who went for a swim as the sun was going down. Soon, he'll sleep with the fishes."	21	2827		キ	The old man thinks fish fin sushi is delicious.	
鴎	seagull	A bird that goes to the inland wards for food is the seagull.	14	2828		オウ	"Wolverine had enough of this ward and hence went to the seaside with his cardboard box. Now he always kills a bird, a seagull, when he wakes up and eats it for breakfast, while listening to the sound of the sea."	
鵬	roc	"Companion, bird: Roc, the mythical bird, was searching for a companion for as long as he existed. Little did he know that he was the only one of his kind."	19	2829		ホウ	"The roc is a large and intimidating bird. Because of this, the roc has a hard time finding a companion."	
鸚	parakeet	The parakeet is a bird that acts like a suckling infant when it drinks from the water dropper.	28	2830		イン	"Ariel, that little mermaid with the shells over her ""ha-ha"" 's is good friends with a parakeet voiced by Gilbert Godfried... or wait, is that some other Disney film?"	
鵡	parrot	"A parrot is a bird of the warrior, for example pirates."	19	2831		ブ	"A parrot makes a terrible bird for any warrior. As soon as the warrior tries to sneak up on its enemy, Polly wants a freaking cracker."	
鵜	cormorant	"[+brose] The cormorant was historically used in Japan and China to catch fish. The fisher would use some rope or something to tie its throat so that it could only swallow small fish. If it caught something too big to swallow, it would take it back to the fisher's boat and the fisher would take it out. This particular cormorant is going after bigger and bigger prey - but one day it goes too far, and tries to swallow your little brother! Imagine trying to yank your brother out of its throat."	18	2832		テイ	The cormorant is a bird you use like your younger brother to fetch things for you.	
鷺	heron	"As I was walking I noticed hair-on the path! When I bent to see what was up, I realized that they were in fact fine feathers poking through - someone had paved over a large bird!"	24	2833		ロ	The heron is a bird large enough to walk on both paths.	
鷲	eagle	"Concerning, bird: The US senate had a meeting concerning the eagle. Although symbol of the US, this bird is close to extinction."	23	2834		シュウ	Matters concerning a bird in the capital are usually about the eagle.	
鴨	wild duck	"Due to its waterproof armor, the wild duck is a bird that resurfaces even if you push it underwater."	16	2835		オウ	"かも, or wild duck, is a Japanese term that means an easy mark or a sucker because wild ducks are considered to be easy to catch. This kanji shows a duck that is wearing some armor to avoid being an easy mark."	
鳶	kite falcon	The kite falcon is a majestic bird that flies in the sky as fast as an arrow. So much so that its feathers are often used to make arrows.	14	2836		エン	"Arrow, bird: The black kite is a bird of prey (like the raptor). You can see it approaching its target, like an arrow speeding through the air."	
梟	owl	"The owl, being wise, is hiding its tail feathers in a tree so that its prey can't tell what kind of bird it is."	11	2837		キョウ	"The owl is a very snooty bird, one could say that it has a tree stuck up it's ass. キョウ."	
塵	dust	A deer stomps on the soil and dust rises from the ground. (big ups mantixen).	14	2838		チン	"On the ground, we found the whole body of a deer covered in dust."	
麓	foot of a mountain	Many deer can be found in the grove at the foot of a mountain.	19	2839		ロク	"Deer are well known for frolicking in groves of trees. However, they are not well known for actually watching where the heck they are bounding about. Here we have a bunch of dead deer bodies that you find at the foot of a mountain. You are trying to figure why there are so many dead deer in one spot, and then you trace a line up the mountain - leaves and such are scattered all the way up...to a grove. Looks like they hopped through some leaves to their doom."	
麒	giraffe	A deer standing on a bushel basket still isn't tall enough to be mistaken for a giraffe.	19	2840		キ	A giraffe is like a deer except that when it plays chess it has a better overview of the board.	
冥	Hades	"The beast of hades one day will wear a crown, and the number of the beast is 666."	10	2841		メイ	"In Hades you have to work six days a week before crowning it with something vaguely resembling a weekend. Oh wait, that's Japan."	
瞑	close the eyes	When you close the eyes of someone who just died...	15	2842		メイ	It's as dark as Hades when you close your eyes.	
暝	murky	"Hades is normally very dark, and even when the sun shines in it is still murky."	14	2843		メイ	The Sunshine looks Murky in Hades.	
坐	sitting in mediation	"The cave was too dark for my tastes, so I went out to sit in mediation."	7	2844		ザ	The cave of ignorance was lifted for these two monks sitting in meditation on the ground.	
挫	sprain	I sprained my fingers when I sat in meditation (by sitting in a strange position).	11	2845		ザ	I sprained in my finger doing a complicated mudra while sitting in meditation.	
朔	first day of the month	"On the first day of the month a mountain goat lets out a ""Baah"" as it jumps over the moon."	10	2846		サク	The female mountain goat can only give milk on one day of the month: on the first day of the month. Her milk cycles are controlled by the moon.	
遡	go upstream	"On the first day of the month, all the salmon go upstream, up the road, to the mating grounds."	14	2847		ソ	On the first day of the month the road to go upstream is opened for salmon fisherman.	
曳	drag	The day seems to drag when it keeps you from having a fiesta.	7	2848		エイ	"Bored with the sun always going the same way (“it’s such a drag”), I tuck the sun under my arm and try to drag it in the opposite direction to usual. EDIT: Notes (1): tucked under the arm is reversed here, i.e. a mirror image of the usual primitive. Note (2): Tow might be a better keyword: see my note at dribble out (#2849)."	
洩	dribble out	"Tip: Heisig has duplicated a primitive name here by calling the right side drag. We already have a two-stroke primitive called drag (see numbers 1853-1861 盾,派,脈,逓,后). I suggest calling 曳 ""tow"" instead."	9	2849		エイ	"Good water flows and thus keeps on moving, but here, the water has too much drag and thus can dribble out of its tube."	
彗	comet	"A comet flew by and knocked down two bushes, so I went out there and swept up the mess, cursing astrological bodies along the way."	11	2850		スイ	Broom is ヨ. The lower primitive here resembles a rake 肀 without a handle (vertical stroke). STORY: Comets actually have 2 bushy tails (http://apod.nasa.gov/apod/image/9703/halebopp4_aac.jpg). Imagine a NASA probe with an attachment like a rake head designed to catch (rake up) the fine particles streaming from the tails for later analysis.	
慧	astute	"Comet, heart: Heisig: ""The astute reader will notice that the second stroke in the broom element of comet doesn't pass through. The astute reader will take this observation to heart""."	15	2851		ケイ	"The astute astral observer Edmond Halley put his heart into his work. And in return, we named a comet for him."	
嘉	applaud	Add a drum when you really want to applaud.	14	2852		カ	The drummer wasn't very good so he had a speaker built into the bottom of the drum which automatically added applause.	
兇	evil	Think of Mike Myers' Dr. Evil standing in an identity parade of intergalactic criminals. Evil is the only villain with human legs.	6	2853		キョウ	The evil villain's favorite hobby is breaking human legs.	
兜	helmet	"The overly-cautious white geek protects his entire upper body with a special helmet he constructed out of two cardboard boxes, unfortunately his human legs could still be easy targets for bullies."	11	2854		トウ	"To protect my very white skull from the sun while standing on my legs, I fashioned a helmet by placing boxes all around my head."	
爽	bracing	The St Bernard is bracing itself for an operation requiring four stitches.	11	2855		ソウ	"That old St. Bernard was just barely limping around, but me, I stitched up the ol' chap and I dare say that the operation was quite bracing."	
欝	depressed	"The baron crashed his plane across enemy lines. Pulling himself out of the wreck, he looked up to see a nearby grove of trees. However he turned depressed as he realized the two flashes of light were actually reflections from the steel as Wolverine deployed both of his razors for action. Out of the frying pan..."	25	2856		ウツ	"The baron is depressed because he lost his pet vulture. He wandered around a grove, where he rummaged through two sheaves, but still he couldn't find his darling vulture."	
劫	kalpa	"kalpa is a Sanskrit word for a long period of time, sort of like ""aeon."" Once a kalpa has gone (passed), there will be no more fossil fuels for power."	7	2857		コウ	"When a kalpa passes, all forms of power we see today will be gone."	
勃	erection	An erection can shoot like a needle from its crown and has the power to make a child.	9	2858		ボツ	The erection is the crowned needle that's got the power to make children.	
歎	bemoan	"Audrey II yawns, bemoaning being stuck in the flower shop with nothing to eat."	14	2859		タン	A scarecrow bemoans that it lacks legs.	
輿	palanquin	"I hop into my palanquin, my car of sorts, such that I may be transported to my next location of entertainment."	17	2860		ヨ	A palanquin is a car used for the entertainment of royalty when they want to take a joyride.	
巽	southeast	"Two snakes are strung together. One is trying to head south, the other to go east. But as they are strung together they have to compromise, ""Let's go Sssssssouth-East.""."	12	2861		ソン	The two snakes Noah elected (1804) for his Ark came from the southeast.	
歪	warped	"In the debate, your political opponent's has such a warped sense of perspective, that he believes the negative is actually correct."	9	2862		ワイ	On standardized tests they use negative questions that are so warped you don't know which answer is correct.	
翠	jade green	"You're so jaded by the time you graduate that when you finally spread your wings, your feathers are all jade green."	14	2863		スイ	"This what the valedictorian wears in Chinese high school graduations. It's a beautiful cap with jade green feathers covering it. No tassel, just those pretty feathers."	
黛	blue-black	"A good substitute for black is blue-black, like the color women try to substitute for their black eyebrows with a pencil."	16	2864		タイ	"Substitute + black= blue-black or blackened-eyebrows. A close substitute for the color black is the color blue-black. Also, women in Japan sometimes have blackened-eyebrows, since their color is naturally a faint blue-black."	
鼎	tripod	"Here we have two people sitting on chairs, trying to set up their camera on a tripod and periodically checking the viewfinder with their eyes."	13	2865		テイ	"(NB: I use THREE-LEGGED KETTLE for 鼎, and reserve TRIPOD for 鬲 Unicode-0x9b32 (#39730).) This THREE-LEGGED KETTLE is used for sacrificial incense-burning. 鼎 shows a watchful EYE carefully putting the offering material in the opening of the KETTLE, which is shown as being squarely supported ON EACH SIDE."	
鹵	rocksalt	"The fortune-teller tells Wolverine that in a past life, she sees him covered in rocksalt from working in a salt mine."	11	2866		ロ	You see a block of rocksalt containing a pent-in ladybird (US = ladybug). Touch it with your magic wand and the ladybird is set free. (Note: Let ladybird = sheaf + four drops. It's pictographic: the sheaf showing the curved back and the four drops the spots on the ladybird).	
鹸	lye	Lye is white like rocksalt and sharp like an awl.	19	2867		ケン	Lye is white like rocksalt and can be broken up with an ice pick.	
虔	reserved	"""That tiger at the zoo was so reserved. He didn't say so much as one sentence."" ""Um, you know tigers can't talk, right?""."	10	2868		ケン	The death row inmate acts reserved when staying at the magic house of seven tigers!	
燕	swallow	"Twenty birds (swallows) are perched at the north exit (北口) of the station. I light a fire underneath them, and as they wilt and fall in the heat, passing commuters swallow them whole. Well, they are swallows."	16	2869		エン	Twenty swallows are perched atop the station's 北口 raining droppings all over everyone. Keep your mouth closed so you don't swallow any. (Thanks Katsuo).	
嘗	lick	"There are things in the outhouse that may appear delicious, and you may even want to lick them, but I assure you: they ain't delicious."	14	2870		ショウ	"Those big white ""mints"" in the outhouse urinals may look delicious, but it's best not to lick them."	
殆	almost	A pedestal in an Indiana Jones movie is littered with the bones of people who almost seized the treasure.	9	2871		タイ	I see a some bones near the pedestal of immortality: someone almost got there!	
孟	start	"This is how things looked at the start, before the 猛 fierce (#1456) wild dogs showed up."	8	2872		モウ	"You are choosing a start(er) at the cannibal restaurant: ""I think I'll start with that child dish""."	
牌	mahjong tiles	"Mahjong tiles, to the best of my understanding have only one side and are considered a lowly use of time."	12	2873		ハイ	"Mahjong tiles are one-sided, and only lowly people who don't play mahjong don't know this."	
骸	remains	The remains consisted of a skeleton which had the remains of some acorns in its stomach area. Whether it died from eating the acorns remains to be seen.	16	2874		ガイ	Hint: The remains of a chipmunk.	
覗	peek	Sneak preview - peek - director lets you see his new movie - 店を覗く（のぞく） - have a quick noze/look in a shop (nozoku).	12	2875		シ	"If a director lets anyone see his film before it's finished, it's only a sneak peek."	
彪	mottled	"It's fun to look at the tiger's mottled leg and pick out shapes, sort of like looking at clouds."	11	2876		ヒョウ	The T-1000 has a hard time shape shifting into a tiger. The stripes always come out mottled.	
秦	Manchu dynasty	"What did man chew in the Manchu dynasty? Well, first man chew bonsai, but he find that rather tough, so next man chew wheat. EDIT: I think the keyword should really be Qin dynasty. So how a about new story based on Bob Dylan's song ""Mighty Quinn"": ""Bonsai without, wheat plants within, you'll not grow nothing like the mighty Qin. (dynasty).""."	10	2877		シン	(thx Katsuo) The so-called 'mighty' Qin dynasty died a nasty death from starvation because they focused on growing bonsai instead of wheat.	
雀	sparrow	There are relatively few turkeys compared to the widely familiar sparrow.	11	2878		ジャク	"There are few turkeys available this Christmas/Thanksgiving, so we're having to make do with sparrow."	
隼	peregrine falcon	"My peregrine falcon recently has been having confidence issues - recently it dives out of the sky and misses the target completely. To boost its confidence, I got a nice, fat turkey, killed it, and then set it up on a big needle so it looked like it was still alive - just loafing about. Then I went to my peregrine falcon - ""hey buddy, look! A nice fat turkey. I bet you can get it!"" It goes for it, but it spears itself on the needle!!"	10	2879		シュン	The peregrine falcon is the fastest animal in the world. It can reach speeds of over 322 km/h in a dive - over ten times as fast as a turkey!	
耀	shimmering	"Rays of light hit the futon, making it shimmer. Think maybe somebody wet the futon last night.."	20	2880		ヨウ	"Once it had been in a state of twinkle (#2534) for awhile, the turkey's feathers began to a-shimmering with some strange light."	
夷	ebisu	When passing through Ebisu in Tokyo (one stop south of Shibuya) you see a St. Bernard that has swallowed a bow (you can see the shape of the bow sticking through its skin).	6	2881		イ	"征夷大将軍 (せいいたいしょうぐん) This is the 'i' part of the full name of the ancient shoguns. Sei i tai shougun (Great general who subdues the eastern barbarians). This Kanji is the ""eastern barbarian"" part. Being the shogun, the most powerful military leader in all of Japan, it is only fitting that he also have a very large bow to go along with his office. So large in fact, that it was given to him by the god of good luck, Ebisu."	
戚	relatives	"Your half-uncle is leading a parade of your relatives. (Note: 上 + 小 makes up part of ""uncle"" 叔, so I've called it ""half-uncle"".)."	11	2882		ソク	"Your uncle organizes a parade of all your relatives, which he himself is only half in because he's busy taking pictures of it."	
嚢	cyst	"Grass skirt, middle, crown: The girl wearing the grass skirt had a cyst growing in the middle of her head, seeming like a crown. A sign she will be the new village elder, I heard later."	22	2883		ノウ	"The hula girl got a cyst on her lips after she placed her mouth on my ""crown"" ten times."	
丼	domburi	"A little one is eating a domburi while standing over, looking down into, a WELL. He drops it, and it falls down & down until it looks like nothing more than a DROP, landing at the bottom of the well!"	5	2884		トン	I drop a domburi down into the well for the goblin living there.	
暢	carefree	"The monkey is carefree with his piggy bank, tossing it at whatever financial opportunity he stumbles upon."	14	2885		チョウ	"As a carefree person, I'm always using my piggy bank to monkey around."	
廻	circling	"A dishonest taxi driver is circling to increase the fare -- trying to stretch out the ride, going around the block many times."	9	2886		カイ	A taxi driver stretches out the time it takes to get to Times Square by circling around it (thanks mcfate).	
畿	capital suburbs	"People aside, I wonder how many rice fields there are in the capital suburbs."	15	2887		キ	How many brains does it take to run the capital suburbs?	
欣	elation	"I was bored, yawning and such, so I picked up my axe and was suddenly filled with much elation."	8	2888		キン	I feel elation when I realize the axe murderer is lacking his axe.	
毅	stalwart	A stalwart sow stands up against a missile.	15	2889		キ	"Stand up, sow, missile: See our stalwart hunter standing upon the sow he just shot, his missile launcher still smoking. (Nothing much left of the sow by the way)."	
斯	this	"Tip: Learn ""this"" 斯 and ""that"" 其 at the same time. (""that"", 其 , is not in Heisig, but is probably more common than 斯). Stories: This bushel basket comes with an axe to open it, but that one doesn't."	12	2890		シ	(Thx Kats) THIS AXE can beat any CHESS peice... except for maybe THAT ROOK.	
匙	wooden spoon	"After you get the wooden spoon in the ""egg & spoon"" race another competitor explains that you need to hold the spoon ""just so""."	11	2891		シ	A spoon used to measure ingredients just so is a measuring spoon.	
匡	set straight	"After the revolution, the king was put into a box so that the government could be set straight."	6	2892		キョウ	"Walking through the park, I see many large boxes where homeless people live. But there's one guy dressed as a king, who seems to be arranging them all, i.e. he's setting the boxes straight. ""Surely you're not a real king?"" I ask. He replies, ""Let me set you straight, I'm king of the boxes""."	
肇	founding	Founding of a nation is usually done by the taskmasters in charge behind closed doors. They sign some papers with their writing brushes and voila..	14	2893		チョウ	"After the founding of Post Secret, people started to disclose things with a brush instead of their mouths."	
麿	Utamaro	Bending over constantly to cut all those woodblocks has given Utamaro a bad back. Now he smokes hemp while he works to ease the pain in in his spine.	18	2894		0	A soft Mashimaro doll made with a hemp spine for some semblance of posture.	
叢	conglomerate	"I have a huge conglomerate (collection) of old books I'm looking to get rid of. They're not in any particular order... some are upside down in a row, some are soiled... just look through them and take whatever you want."	18	2895		ソウ	"This is similar to 業 business/profession (#1792), with ""not yet"" replaced by ""take."" A giant company that takes up many companies with different professions, is called a conglomerate."	
肴	entreat	"Tip: ""snack"" or ""appetizer"" would be better keywords for this kanji."	8	2896		コウ	Wolverine posesses the most treats at the party because he's entreated for being famous.	
斐	symmetrically patterned	The murderer who carved symmetrical patterns into all his victims was sentenced life in a jailcell. (thanks tomusan).	12	2897		ヒ	Chun-Li gave the death row inmate a symmetrically patterned footprint on the top of his head with a foot stomp cross-up.	
卿	magistrate	British magistrates wear wigs made of silver hair. But picture an eccentric magistrate who instead wears a silver hare on his head.	12	2898		ケイ	Slight modification of katsuo (kiddo): british magistrate wear wigs made of silver hair . But just because they re compelled to do so doesn t mean they re necessarly comfortable with . If you saw the wig of mozart in Amadeus it s not very hard to picture a judge who wears his wig so badly that it looks like two huge hare/Bunny ears.	
翫	fiddle with	In the beginning you learn by fiddling with things.	15	2899		ガン	"Emperor Nero fiddled with his fiddle while Rome burned. When he was later asked to explain himself he said, “Well, I was learning how to play this piece and had to keep going back to the beginning”."	
於	within	"Image: An Arctic explorer frozen within ice, within his hands are an umbrella and a compass."	8	2900		オ	Within minutes the weather changed and ice blew in from all directions making my umbrella useless…　　RTK2:　お　於ける　おれる(in).	
套	hackneyed	"The hackneyed hangover cure is to have ""some hair of the dog that bit you.""."	10	2901		トウ	"You may think you're being original by sporting an afro, but it's hackneyed to have big poofy long hair."	
叛	rebellion	The half that was anti- started a rebellion.	9	2902		ハン	The rebellion was unpopular and HALF the population was AGAINST it.	
尖	sharp point	A small tip on something large creates a sharp point.	6	2903		セン	"Little, St Bernard: In primary school, I had a pencil sharpener shaped as a little St. Bernard. I put in my blunt pencil, and it came out with a sharp point."	
壷	crock	"The samurai's crock was so old it was a crowned a heritage item of Asia, and he wouldn't sell it."	11	2904		コ	"The E-mail read: ""Hello, my name is Ubuntu Nonga, crowned samurai of a small Asian country. I have $5 million that I need to move to a safe place ..."" But I knew that advance-fee scams are a crock."	
叡	sapience	"The magic wand in a guy's crotch is crowned with one eye, and contains a certain sapience... but they should try not to ""think with the little head.""."	16	2905		エイ	"Magic wand, crown, 1-eyed valley, crotch: The archeologist was searching for the birthplace of the homo sapience. Wearing his magic wand and his divining crown, he was able to located it in the 1-eyed valley, somewhere in Bolivia. His crotch got all excited, thinking on all the publicity of finding the birthplace of homo sapience."	
酋	chieftain	Only the chieftain could drink horned whiskey since he was the one responsible for procreation.	9	2906		シュウ	"I have used Red Bull as a primitive since furthermore/waver (#1438), so now it is easy to remember the chieftain's name: Chief Red Bull!"	
鴬	nightingale	The nightingale is a bird that goes to a schoolhouse at night to learn to sing.	16	2907		オウ	"This character is actually a 俗字 (unofficial simplification) of the character 鶯. As such, it is actually far less common than the traditional character according to a google search. Story for the correct character: The nightingale is bird with a crown (mane) as bright as a deep fire (two fires)."	
赫	incandescent	"Incandescent red is naturally twice as bright as ordinary red (赤). Alternatively, this is a picture of spreading (already doubled), incandescent red fire. Note: This is used by far most commonly to write 赫(あか)い, although dictionaries do not recognize such a reading (except for kanji dictionaries)."	14	2908		カク	"Rosy cheeks are incandescent, glowing red with heat."	
臥	supinate	"If a person has retainers, then he can spend his life supinate (i.e. lying on his back doing nothing). (note: for the writing order think: SuPinate = Slave-Person)."	9	2909		ガ	Mr. Garrison gets Mr. Slave to supinate while he watches. (notice if you look at 臣 sideways it looks like a person bending over with a cock and balls.).	
甥	nephew	A nephew is someone you can watch grow into a man over his lifetime.	13	2910		セイ	"Life, male: During a visit to your family, you meet your nephew. You find out that in his short life, your nephew already has collected a great many male things in his room, such as 'dirty' magazines, etc."	
瓢	gourd	"I enter a ballot to try to win a melon, but end up with a gourd."	17	2911		ヒョウ	"With its protective hard rind, a gourd is a melon used to deposit ballots in during elections."	
琵	biwa	"The two kings play their biwa, comparing each other's skill."	12	2912		ビ	"When choosing new instruments, Tenacious D compared the biwa to the harp (#1591)."	
琶	lute	When she's playing the lute between your two balls Japanese censors mosaic it out.	12	2913		ハ	"The lute is a good name for the thing between your TWO JEWELS, which is often behind a pixel MOSAIC on film."	
叉	forked	"Think of this as ""tuning fork"" (音叉). Then, touching a vibrating tuning fork against a crotch causes it to drip drops."	3	2914		サ	"You are looking for a bathroom, but the path in front is forked and you don't know which way to go. Suddenly a drop begins to appear on your crotch over your pants..."	
舜	rose of Sharon	Elton john takes off his birdhouse sunglasses as he winks and gives a rose to sharon.	13	2915		シュン	"You can't 瞬 wink (#817) if you're minus an eye, but you can still hand out a rose of Sharon to get attention from the ladies."	
畠	dry field	"You see a white dove about to land in a paddyfield, and, believing that field to be under water, expect to hear a ""plop"". But the plop doesn't come, so you think to yourself, ""Ah, that must be a dry field""."	10	2916		0	A rice field turns white as shit (literally) it is such a dry field.	
拳	fist	1) I hold a roll of quarters in my hand when I make a fist. 2) I hold a quarter in my hand as I prepare to play the Iron Fist Tournament: 鉄拳 （てっけん） at the arcade.	10	2917		ケン	"Quarter, hand: If you have a roll of quarters in your hand, your fist will deliver a much more effective punch."	
圃	vegetable patch	"Think of a vegetable patch owned by a perfectionist, where every group of crops is pent in and separated accordingly, and every single crop is dogtagged and earmarked."	10	2918		ホ	"My offspring is supposed to be weeding my vegetable patch, but he keeps running off to play. So I put an electric fence around the veggie patch to pent him in. Now he's hard at work in there!"	
丞	helping hand	"If water completely covers the floor, you will need a helping hand to clean it up."	6	2919		ジョウ	"Water is completely covering your floor, and no matter how fast you mop it up it makes no difference. In desperation you cry, ""Can someone give me a helping hand?""."	
亮	translucent	Let crown + human legs = Miss World. Then the very tall Miss World won the title due to her translucent dress.	9	2920		リョウ	A tall girl in a translucent mini skirt... Hell yes.	
胤	blood relative	The body part between Venom's legs can produce blood relatives.	9	2921		イン	"I think Halpern's keyword ""progeny"" is a better fit for this kanji. Then: Progeny – a cocoon-like piece of flesh that drops out between two human legs."	
疏	transcription	The zoo needed a transcription of the accident report involving the infant caught in the flood.	12	2922		ソ	"Imagine spending your whole summer learning two ancient arts - first, the art of speaking to animals at the zoo (this is a bunch of different languages - no small feat), and the art of writing your name in urine (you go see the Mannequin de Pis for this - just sitting there and observing for hours on end). Anyway, you decide to put these two together, and go to a zoo cage, and ask the animal to tell its story. You then open your fly and proceed to do a full transcription of what it is saying."	
膏	ointment	Your body parts will become tall if you apply a special ointment.	14	2923		コウ	The tall Heisig swapped his hood for a crown before applying ointment on his body parts to make them smooth as silk (#1368).	
魁	pioneer	The ghost who went to the Big Dipper was a pioneer.	14	2924		カイ	"The Ghostbusters were pioneers, being the first people ever to capture a ghost in a measuring cup."	
馨	ambrosial	"Voice, missile, incense: Before they were going to launch the missile, they were having a service to beg favor of the Gods. Then, when they lit the incense, a booming voice came out of nowhere: ""Hmmm... this smell is great, no, ambrosial. Really worthy of the Gods...""."	20	2925		ケイ	"[+abaddon] An ambrosial voice, like a missile from the Gods, said: 'That incense is positively ambrosial'."	
牒	label	"Tip: New primitive: Let Tarzan = generation + tree -- because Tarzan lives with several generations of his family at the top of a tree. (This combination appears five times: leaf (#228), butterfly (#521), chatter (#2158), secret agent (#2726), label (FRAME 2926)). Story: You notice Tarzan is wearing his shirt inside-out and explain to him that clothes are one-sided and that he can tell by looking at the label."	13	2926		チョウ	"It is with mindless chatter (#2158) that one-sided labels are attached to good, honourable people."	
瞥	glimpse	My sharp eye caught a glimpse of the confidential information before it went through the shredder.	17	2927		ベツ	"As the taskmaster makes me get down on my knees to clean the floor with rags, my eye catches a glimpse of her panties."	
阜	large hill	The maestro lives on top of a large hill so that he can play music at over ten decibels without anyone giving a damn.	8	2928		フ	"Note to those who have not got this far in the book: This is the full kanji for the Pinnacle primitive (i.e. only the left-hand version of the primitive). The full kanji for the City Walls primitive is city walls (#2180). Beyonce went for an invigorating walk up a large hill on a summer's afternoon. Since the grass was so lush and cool, she took off her sandals and immediately stepped on a used hypodermic needle. 岐阜県　ぎふけん Gifu Prefecture."	
睾	testicle	Tip: primitives given in the book are: blood + happiness. But should be: drop + eye (/net) + happiness. Story: As you squeeze the last drop out of your testicles you go cross-eyed with happiness.	14	2929		コウ	"Sometimes I teabag my friend, dropping my testicles on his eyes, because it brings me happiness."	
巫	sorceress	"Craft, assembly line: The sorceress was very good at her craft. She magicked an assembly line to produce all kinds of sorceress' merchandise. Shrewed businesswoman, I'd say."	7	2930		フ	"When assembly lines first became popular, they were so quick at their craft that some swore they had to be the work of a sorceress."	
敦	empathetic	A taskmaster can be empathetic if she receives something.	12	2931		トン	"The taskmaster was very empathetic when the tall kid explained how his dog had eaten his homework. Yeah, right. And if you believe that one ..."	
奎	Andromeda	"(From Greek mythology). When Perseus goes to rescue Andromeda, he finds he's made a mistake. What looked from a distance like a beautiful maiden chained to a rock turns out to be a St. Bernard tangled up in some ivy. (Andromeda was chained up a bit further down on another beach)."	9	2932		ケイ	Andromeda is a large constellation that represents the god of literature thought to inhabit Ivy League schools.	
翔	soar	"If a sheep had feathers, it could soar."	12	2933		ショウ	Icarus' wings made him soar across the ocean (#549) without becoming wet.	
皓	beaming	The revelation brought back by the dove left Noah beaming -- the flood waters were receding.	12	2934		コウ	The holy white dove surrounded by beaming light came down from the sky with a revelation to tell us.	
黎	tenebrous	"""tenebrous"" = ""dark"" or ""obscure."" In tenebrous nights, millet is found tied in slipknots, in crop circles."	15	2935		レイ	The tenebrous Slipknot forces their way into the millet of Iowa.	
赳	bold	"Run, cornucopia: The thief was bold, but stupid. He was running away with the cornucopia he just stole from the feudal lord. However, he was leaving an easy track to follow as the cornucopia was pouring out its riches. So, bold, but stupid."	10	2936		キュウ	A marathon runner bold enough to race the Fantastic Four.	
已	stop short	This character would be the sign of the snake if the last stroke didn't stop short.	3	2937		イ	Igor (イ)'s move to steal a snake's girl was to stop short. http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lxGRE2wpjsY.	
棘	thornbush	The belt of thorns around a tree is doubled in a thornbush.	12	2938		キョク	"A thornbush so thorny, even its thorns have thorns. Note: A good example is gorse http://www.weeds.asn.au/gifs/line_art/gorse.gif."	
聚	crowd	"Zombies love a good crowd, as they can take as many ears and crotches as they want."	14	2939		シュウ	The crowd of zombies goes for the ears and crotches first. mmmmm.	
甦	resucitate	"Grow late, life: It had nearly grown too late to resucitate the half-drowned man, but a passer-by was able to breath life back into him, thus resucitating him."	12	2940		ソ	To breathe life into someone after it might have grown (too) late is to resuscitate them.	
剪	pruning	Lazy guide to pruning: Grab a dagger and slash everything in front.	11	2941		セン	"In front (drops), dagger: The gardener is pruning his roses. He closes up to the one in front of him until he can see the dewdrops on the petals. Then he gets out his dagger and prunes."	
躾	upbringing	"With the right upbringing, you might become somebody beautiful."	16	2942		0	"Guys don't care about what kind of upbringing the woman had, they just want somebody with a beautiful body."	
夥	plentiful	There are many fruits when they're plentiful.	14	2943		カ	"When fruit is plentiful, it feeds many mouths. This could mean anything that is vast or abundant."	
鼾	snore	"If you snore, your nose becomes dry. I try to remember the slightly different bottom part by wanting to hit the snoring nose with two hands but can't quite reach. KUN yomi reading いびき."	17	2944		カン	Stay dry (from alcohol) and wear a nose plug if you tend to snore.	
祟	cast a spell	Beings exit the spirit world through the altar when you cast a spell.	10	2945		スイ	"SPOILER: The trophy in the Triwizard Tournament was just for show, in reality Barty Crouch Jr. had cast a spell on the trophy so it would be a Portkey that would make anyone who touched it exit the school grounds and teleport to the graveyard where Voldemort was waiting."	
粁	kilometer	"If you mark each meter with a grain of rice, after 1,000 grains of rice you have measured out a kilometre."	9	2946		0	A kilometer is made of one thousand meters.	
糎	centimeter	A rin of a meter is a centimeter.	15	2947		0	"Centimeter is spelt the American way. As mantixen says, it is a rin of a meter."	
粍	millimeter	The portion of a meter the width of fur is a millimeter.	10	2948		0	RICE and cheap FUR are about 1 MILLIMETER thick.	
噸	ton	"Unsuccessful dieter's excuse: ""If I put anything in my mouth, I immediately put on a ton.""."	16	2949		トン	A mouth that says things immediately without thinking gets into a ton of trouble.	
哩	mile	"Mouth, computer: The mouth on my navigation computer tells me it's only a mile left to my destination."	10	2950		リ	A computer with a mouth could talk a mile a minute.	
浬	nautical mile	"Water, computer: Some water leaked into my navigation computer and now it expresses all distances in nautical miles. Very annoying!!"	10	2951		リ	A ri on water is about a nautical mile.	
吋	inch	"If you GLUE your MOUTH shut, you can't open it one INCH."	6	2952		トウ	To glue your mouth shut it only takes an inch of it.	
呎	feet	"Mouth, shakuhachi: The hookers mouth was huge and also she was very skilled in 'shakuhachi': she could hold up to one foot."	7	2953		シャク	Whenever my girlfriend puts a footlong in her mouth I want her to give me a shakuhachi.	
梵	brahman	"This is a Brahman, a fully enlightened one. He's sitting in front of a grove of trees, legs open (looks like wind), just meditating. You run up to him asking him all sorts of crazy questions, and he looks at you and smiles. ""Brah, man, just chill, man. Braaaaah#."" Apparently he's a surfer brahman. You ask him the meaning of life, and he smiles, and waits...waits...waits...until a bit of wind blows by. He lets out a small fart in the wind, and nods knowingly at you."	11	2954		ボン	"Brahman who are mediocre don't get the sweet meditation spots on the beach. Instead, they have to settle for a grove of trees."	
陀	Shakyamuni Buddha	"At the pinnacle of enlightenment, Shakyamuni Buddha had the ability to bend common household spoons."	8	2955		タ	Shakyamuni Buddha sits in his house at the pinnacle.	
薩	bodhisattva	"[+megaqwerty] This is the Bodhisattva, who wants to help release the wicked from the painful cycle of life. Of course, the most vain and wicked are the pathetic lamers in the Pinnacle. He goes to register to stand at the station and hand out products. The registrar - ""Okay, buddy, what are you selling?"" ""Nothing,"" he says. ""I am giving out physical products to entice true enlightment."" ""Whatever, dude..."" He gets his license, and hands out flowers to anyone who will take them."	16	2956		サツ	"Flower, pinnacle, product: I didn't understand the terrorist: bodhisattva... body fatwa? Hmm.. just to be sure, I gave him the booby trap flower (a product of the Pinnacle). Later, I learned that bodhisattva is someone who postpones his or her own enlightenment to help others. Oops..."	
菩	bo tree	The flower shop has put a muzzle on Bo Derek and is selling her as a bo tree.	11	2957		ボ	"A wannabe buddhist buys a tree and tries to give it to Buddha as a gift, ""Yo Bo, 'sup, I got yo a tree!"" Buddha gracefully accepts the gift and gives him a flower in return to shut him up (muzzle him)."	
唖	babble	Babble is what comes out of Asian people's mouths until you learn their language.	10	2958		ア	"The kanji has the meanings of ""mute"" (聾唖) and ""speechless"" (唖然), like ""dumb"" used to (""struck dumb"" etc). Asian mouth is mute in a way, because they don't babble so much as they do in some parts of the world."	
迦	Sanskrit ka	You wanna drive a Sanskrit ka? Just add it to the road.	7	2959		カ	"Ford didn't know what to call their next car, and it was ready to be released. A quick-witted Indian employee thought to himself, ""why don't they just call it the 'car', so they can get this show on the road?"" He raised his hand at the meeting and said, ""I propose we call it the Ford Ka. No, not like 'car', the Sanskrit ka invokes a sense of reliability, safety, performance and beauty. Add to that the fact that nobody will forget its name, because it's homophonous with the actual product!"	
那	interrogative	"If you arrive with two swords at the city walls, expect some interrogatives before they'll let you in."	6	2960		ナ	"Interrogation at the city walls: ""Any weapons, question mark."" ""Just a blade."" ""Why the two scratches on the blade, question mark."" ""To remind me that I cut off my other ear too, exclamation mark (exclamation (#2680)).""."	
牟	moo	"If you elbow a cow it's will moo. (or alternatively, a cow mooing, the sound being somewhat like ム)."	6	2961		ボウ	"Turns out that raulir is correct, According to RTK2[2nd ed. Frame 41] this is the root of the katakana ム."	
珈	jeweled hairpin	"To cut down on カロries, the king adds a jeweled hairpin to his coffee rather than sugar."	9	2962		カ	When the Jewish king added jewels to his jeweled hairpin he was lauded. When the Palestinian king put beads on his 琲 beaded hairpin (#2963) he was jailed.	
琲	beaded hairpin	The king is in the jail cell and is trying to escape by picking the lock with his beaded hairpin.	12	2963		ハイ	"Every king wants to add a jewelled hairpin to their collection of crown jewels. No kings want beaded hairpins though, because they're uncool."	
檜	Japanese cypress [old]	It used to be that for a meeting [old] you'd meet for a day to get the small details pent in. Even then such meetings were still held under the Japanese cypress [old].	17	2964		カイ	"You wait as days pass, pent in a little wooden cage, until you are summoned for a meeting with the old Japanese Cypress in which she sets you free."	
轡	bridle's bit	"This is a picture of a horse cart (車) from which the reins (糸) go to the mouth (口) of the horse, in which is the bit."	22	2965		ヒ	A bridle's bit was put in the mouth of the horse and connected by two threads back to the horse-drawn car.	
淵	abyss [old]	"The abyss [old] used to be the water you were pushed into if you lost in the arm wrestling match. (the primitive to the right screams two guys arm wrestling on a table, any one else see it?)."	12	2966		エン	Be careful on the suspension bridge lest you fall into the water of the abyss [old].	
伍	V	Mr T knows that the Roman Numeral for five is V.	6	2967		ゴ	Yoda figured out what the V in V for Vendetta meant within the first 5 minutes. He ain't no fool.	
什	X	Mr T also knows that the Roman Numeral for ten is X.	4	2968		ジュウ	"Mr. T gives ten reasons he looks up to Malcolm X, then wonders out loud what happened to the other IX Malcolms."	
萬	ten thousand [old]	This is actually the old ten thousand yen bill in Japan - Jiminy Cricket surrounded by a wreath of flowers. It's pretty uncommon to see nowadays since it was only in print for a few days immediately after the war (MacArthur wanted a way to make sure that even the rich kept their atrocities in their consciences).	12	2969		マン	Your flowers will not be safe if ten thousand [old] Jiminy Crickets come to town.	
邁	pass through	"I see lots of 10,000 yen notes just lying on the road and think, ""Should I stop and pick them up?"" But then I realise they are old 10,000's (i.e. worthless) and decide I’ll just pass through."	15	2970		マイ	"I wonder if I can pass through this old road, it looks 10000 years old."	
逞	tough	Tough guys like to display there force on the road.	9	2971		テイ	An especially TOUGH form of discipline was used in old Japan. Criminals would be tied up or crucified on posts and put on DISPLAY and their blood would DROP onto the ROAD.	
燈	lamp [old]	"In old style street lamps, to light the fire you had to ascend them."	16	2972		トウ	Fire can ascend from the ground and hang in a lamp [old].	
裡	back [old]	"In the old days, instead of having a micro-computer sewn into the suit of the master spy, a whole computer was carried in the back of his cloak, although it was clearly obvious that he was a spy. ""What's that um.. enormous computer doing in the back your cloak?""."	12	2973		リ	"Prior to donning a hat and cloak to protect his back, the evil cyborg simply kept a cloak to the side to protect his back [old]."	
薗	park [alternate]	"Parks in Japan are designed around water, rocks and trees. A park with flowers is considered to be an alternate park."	16	2974		エン	In the old days parks had more flowers.	
鋪	shop [alternate]	"At an alternative shop you can buy strange items like metal dogtags from wars, active grenades, torture sets, etc."	15	2975		ホ	Understandable that the alternate shop is more successful than the regular 舗 shop (#1839): trendy metal motif instead of that dingy cottage look.	
嶋	island [alternate]	"Mountain, bird: On the alternative island, birds could just breed beside the mountains instead of upon one. The hippies didn't do any harm."	14	2976		トウ	"The bird got tired of the mountain he lived on, so now he's flying away searching for an alternative island."	
峯	summit [alternate]	The alternative summit is so steep that the mountain is above you rather than beside you. People usually just go with the regular summit.	10	2977		ホウ	"Mountain, walking through the bushes: The hippies didn't want to climb the entire mountain and decided to go to the 'alternative summit' which involved walking through the bushes below the mountain."	
巌	boulder [old]	"Mountain, stern: Below the mountain, a stern owl was sitting on an old boulder. 'Don't go up there', it said. 'There's danger of old boulders rolling down'."	20	2978		ガン	A stern mountain ready to send [old] boulders down at climbers.	
埜	plains [old]	A grove now grows on the soil of [old] plains.	11	2979		ヤ	The old plains natives continue to inhabit the groves & work the soil. The lucky ones are helped by their daughters & sons who work the new 野 plains (#1596) on computers & know already beforehand to whom & what they owe their joy.	
舘	Bldg. [old]	"When the bureaucrat first moved to his [old] Bldg., people walking by under umbrellas would secretly stick their tongue out at him, wishing he hadn't retired from being a musical maestro."	16	2980		カン	"In the old building there used to be no water fountains, so the bureaucrats would lick water off their umbrellas with their tongues. Thankfully, water fountains are now installed."	
龍	dragon [old]	"An ancient Japanese dragon, beautiful and terrifying. Here it is depicted standing on a piece of meat (its prey) and a description is written on the right margin. It is said to be like a snake that has three toes on its feet and can sometimes use its head as a flamethrower (kind of like a sling, but with fire instead of stones). (Note: The Japanese dragon has three toes, unlike other Asian dragons. Asian dragons generally don't breath fire, but Godzilla does, and it is supposed to be a dragon!)."	16	2981		リュウ	"(insp by raulir) The ancient Japanese Dragon, now extinct, is depicted in a book of lore STANDING on a pile of freshly slaughtered MEAT. The column describes how the last Japanese Dragon was killed by a party of adventurers, who struck its SNAKE body simultaneously with a SLINGSHOT and THREE swords."	
寵	patronage	"House, dragon [old]: The house of the old dragon was filled with art pieces: he was very active in patronage, i.e. supporting artists. (He had to do something with his hoard)."	19	2982		チョウ	A Chinese dragon's house enjoys a lot of patronage from would-be disciples.	
聾	deafness	A Chinese dragon flying overhead can cause deafness to your ears.	22	2983		ロウ	When the old dragon roared into my ears I suffered from a little deafness.	
慾	longing [old]	The old longing is a 欲 longing (#792) of the heart.	15	2984		ヨク	"As you get old, you develop a longing for a new heart."	
亙	span [old]	"I drop two five cent pieces on the ground, and a span of old homeless men coming diving in my direction."	6	2985		コウ	"In olden times, the span of a day seemed different when it looked like it was going to rain."	
躯	body [old]	"I may have an old body, but I am somebody in this ward (in this ward I am somebody)."	11	2986		ク	"An old body of somebody was found in Minato ku, killed by a 枢 hinge (#1697) gun in a 駆 drive (#1983)-by shooting. Note that this took place on the West side (i.e., left side, for placement of the non-ward primitive). It is on the East side that the 鴎 seagull (#2828) lives, plotting her 殴 assault (#1698) on 欧 Europe (#1699)."	
嶽	Point [old]	A long time ago the Monkey King was kept in prison under a mountain Point.	17	2987		ガク	"It's an old point to say that land developers don't always provide full disclosure. Brochures touting the 'New Point', an artificial hill atop the mountain, fail to mention the notorious prison on the Old Point just below."	
國	country [old]	"Russia, an old country, has everyone pent-in and drinking vodka saying ""aaaaaaaaa"". See mantixen's story, a (#2091)."	11	2988		コク	It used to be you were pent in by a certain country. Now we have global travel and dual citizenships.	
脛	shin	"[+brian44] is right - so I'll try using the right primitive as sewers. I've been using Ninja Turtles and stuff though, so I'll have to use this as a series of narrow, long, lead pipes that bring floods of water to the city. Here, someone has taken a lead sewer pipe and hit you in the part of your flesh that is most vulnerable to impact: your shin (after years of soccer/football, I can't think of the word shin without thinking of pain)."	11	2989		ケイ	The body part that gets wet when you wade through the sewers (a crafted flood underneath the ground) is your shin (thanks brian44).	
勁	formidable	The powerful stench coming from the sewers is formidable.	9	2990		ケイ	The legendary barge (see 脛 shin (#2989)) owned by Cleopatra was a symbol of her formidable power.	
箋	stationary	"Note: the spelling should be stationery (= paper, office supplies), not stationary (= not moving). The error is in the original book."	14	2991		セン	The two fiestas communicated to each other on their respective floats by using bamboo stationery.	
祀	enshrine	"Old evil altar, sign of snake: In the ancient temple, they found and old evil altar with the sign of the snake imprinted on it. What evil could be enshrined within it???"	8	2992		シ	An altar with the sign of the snake etched into it enshrines a serpent god.	
祓	exorcism	"Old evil altar, chihuahua with extra leg: They opened up the old evil altar in the ancient temple. Nothing inside. But suddenly, their chihuahua grew an extra leg, and started speaking in a strange language. Time for an exorcism, one would say."	10	2993		フツ	When grandma's chihuahua developed the extra leg we thought an exorcism in order. We did it on a very old altar. It was not successful.	
躇	dither	People with wooden legs are renowned for dithering over whether to decorate them with a drop of paint or not.	19	2994		チョ	"Make the story as you need, but 躊hesitate (#2996) and this kanji 躇dither (#2994) mean the same thing and are used as a unit exclusively..... 躊躇(ちゅうちょ)する= 躊躇う(ためらう)= hesitate, falter, waver. (Heisig RTK2 error: 躊躇 does not mean 'warning') My stupid suggestion for a story: Give flowers to your Peg-Legged love doll. If you diddle (I mean dither) her, maybe she will get a little wet, at least a drop worth."	
壽	longevity [old]	"A samurai wearing a broken crown crafted an inch-thick floor under which to hide with his mouth glued, giving him longevity as his enemies failed to find him."	14	2995		ジュ	"This is an old samurai who's seen a lot of longevity. He has been sitting in the same spot, on his torn Burger King Crown, for ages. He's something of a local landmark, so when a construction site is set up around him, they simply put a ceiling over his head and build around him. A gum company puts him in their CM for Longevity Gum. In the CM, he eats a stick of gum and rambles something foreign (he's actually saying - why are you putting this glue in my mouth?)."	
躊	hesitate	I hesitate to have a wooden leg fitted as I'm not sure how it will affect my longevity.	21	2996		チュウ	"The man suffering from gangrene hesitated a bit, but knew he'd have to choose the peg leg if he wanted longevity."	
彙	glossary	People who read the glossary are mutually exclusive (exclude the top line of mutually (#757) ) from those who eat crowned fruit イ はりねずみ same kind 語彙.	13	2997		イ	"I was having mutual difficulties in my relationship. She was always the one wearing the crown and I was the one picking the fruit. In order to fix the problem I checked the glossary for ""mutual difficulties"" but found nothing. I guess we're going to have to mutually end our relationship."	
饅	bean jam	"A bit of old food is stuck on one of my mandalas. What could it be? I scrape it off and taste it . . . Hmm, bean jam, I reckon."	20	2998		マン	Steamed bean jam dumplings were invented as a form of Chinese take-out that could be eaten while meditating on a mandala (thanks dihutenosa).	
嘔	retch	The mouth on the left eats a whole box full of goods and then starts to retch them out again.	14	2999		オウ	"In my grandmother's attic, I found a box of goods from WWII. I put some in my mouth and started to retch."	
鼈	snapping turtle	"The snapping turtle is ordering lunch at a restaurant, ""I'll have the shredded old eel -- and make it snappy!"". (Picture the waiter putting old eels through the shredder before serving them)."	25	3000		ベツ	(Note: Bottom 黽 means Green frog /industry. Check your Japanese dictionary.) Story - The Snapping turtle eats through green frogs like a shredder eats through paper.	
亨	go smoothly	"It's a tall order, but we can complete it if things go smoothly."	7	3001		コウ	"Remember the Tall & Wide Receiver from receive (#308)? Things have gone pretty smoothly in his life. He's grown up, graduated, and now is a COMPLETE man, TALL and respected as his life and career go smoothly on to great things."	
侑	condone	Person-possession (i.e. slavery) cannot be condoned.	8	3002		ユウ	Mr T doesn't condone possession of drugs.	
梧	parasol tree	"If I could be a tree, I'd be a parasol tree to give others shade."	11	3003		ゴ	"A parasol tree can be closed like a parasol. It is then shaped like the letter ""I"", i.e. an ""I-tree"" = 梧."	
欽	circumspect	"The Golden Rule: ""He who has the gold, makes the rules."" Those who lack gold must remain circumspect."	12	3004		キン	"If you show a lot of gold when you yawn, then you need to be more circumspect because a criminal might yank your teeth out."	
煕	cheer	"The slave, despite being thrown over a fire and getting horribly deformed, and getting bit by a full-grown snake so badly it left a permanent slit, managed to survive and tell the tale. You can't help but cheer for him."	13	3005		キ	"Picture a deformed retainer with a sign of the snake tattoo working at a barbecue (fire) behind the bar in tv series ""Cheer(s)""."	
而	and then	"If you lose your comb, there is no point just hoping it will turn up. You must carefully comb the whole house looking for it, and then you will find it."	6	3006		ジ	"First it was a mask, and then it became a comb."	
掟	mandate	Congratulations. Now get into that AJATT!	11	3007		トウ	"Mandates are often decided by a show of hands, but in this case is finger-determined."	